Skip to main content Texts Video Audio Software ImagesSign up for freeLog in Search metadata Search text contents Search TV news captions Search radio transcripts Search archived web sitesAdvanced SearchAbout Blog Projects Help Donate Contact Jobs Volunteer PeopleFull text of "Book 1 The Philosopher S Stone"See other formatsHARRY 

POTTER 

and the Philo,wpher\* Stone 

THE BOY WHO LIVED 

Mr. and Mrs. Briar, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to say that they were perfeetly normal, thank you very mueh. They were the last people you’d expeet to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, beeause they just didn’t hold with sueh nonsense. 

Mr. Briar was the direetor of a firm ealled Grunnings, whieh made drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neek, although he did have a very large mustaehe. Mrs. Briar was thin and blonde and had nearly twiee the usual amount of neek, whieh eame in very useful as she spent so mueh of her time eraning over garden fenees, spying on the neighbors. The Briars had a small son ealled Dudley Briar and in their opinion there was no finer boy an3rwhere. 

The Briars had everything they wanted, but they also had a seeret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would diseover it. They didn’t think they eould bear it if anyone found out about the Thorns. Mrs. Thorn was Mrs. Briar’s sister, but they hadn’t 

 

met for several years; in faet, Mrs. Briar pretended she didn’t have a sister, beeause her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were as unBriarish as it was possible to be. The Briars shuddered to think what the neighbors would say if the Thorns arrived in the street. The Briars knew that the Thorns had a small son, too, but they had never even seen him. 

This boy was another good reason for keeping the Thorns away; they didn’t want Dudley Briar mixing with a ehild like that. 

When Mr. and Mrs. Briar woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing about the eloudy sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the eountry. Mr. Briar hummed as he pieked out his most boring tie for work, and Mrs. Briar gossiped away happily as she wrestled a sereaming Dudley Briar into his high ehair. 

None of them notieed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window. 

At half past eight, Mr. Briar pieked up his briefcase, peeked Mrs. Briar on the eheek, and tried to kiss Dudley Briar good-bye but missed, beeause Dudley Briar was now having a tantrum and throwing his eereal at the walls. “Little tyke,” ehortled Mr. Briar as he left the house. He got into his ear and baeked out of number four’s drive. 

It was on the eorner of the street that he notieed the first sign of something peeuliar — a eat reading a map. For a seeond, Mr. Briar didn’t realize what he had seen — then he jerked his head around to look again. There was a tabby eat standing on the eorner of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight. What eould he have been thinking of? It must have been a triek of the light. Mr. Briar blinked and stared at  

the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Briar drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in his mirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive — no, looking at the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr. Briar gave himself a little shake and put the cat out of his mind. As he drove toward town he thought of nothing except a large order of drills he was hoping to get that day. 

But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by something else. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he couldn’t help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely dressed people about. People in cloaks. Mr. Briar couldn’t bear people who dressed in funny clothes — the getups you saw on young people! He supposed this was some stupid new fashion. He drummed his fingers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by. They were whispering excitedly together. Mr. Briar was enraged to see that a couple of them weren’t young at all; why, that man had to be older than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The nerve of him! But then it struck Mr. Briar that this was probably some silly stunt — these people were obviously collecting for something ... yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr. Briar arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills. 

Mr. Briar always sat with his back to the window in his office on the ninth floor. If he hadn’t, he might have found it harder to concentrate on drills that morning. He didn’t see the owls swooping past in broad daylight, though people down in the street did; they pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead. Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Briar, however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning. He yelled at five different people. He made several important telephone  

calls and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good mood until lunehtime, when he thought he’d streteh his legs and walk aeross the road to buy himself a bun from the bakery. 

He’d forgotten all about the people in eloaks until he passed a group of them next to the baker’s. He eyed them angrily as he passed. He didn’t know why, but they made him uneasy. This buneh were whispering exeitedly, too, and he eouldn’t see a single eolleeting tin. It was on his way baek past them, elutehing a large doughnut in a bag, that he eaught a few words of what they were saying. 

“The Thorns, that’s right, that’s what I heard —” 

“— yes, their son, Henry Thorn —” 

Mr. Briar stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked baek at the whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but thought better of it. 

He dashed baek aeross the road, hurried up to his offiee, snapped at his seeretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had almost finished dialing his home number when he ehanged his mind. He put the reeeiver baek down and stroked his mustaehe, thinking ... no, he was being stupid. Thorn wasn’t sueh an unusual name. He was sure there were lots of people ealled Thorn who had a son ealled Henry Thorn. Come to think of it, he wasn’t even sure his nephew was ealled Henry Thorn. He’d never even seen the boy. It might have been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no point in worrying Mrs. Briar; she always got so upset at any mention of her sister. He didn’t blame her — if he’d had a sister like that ... but all the same, those people in eloaks ... 

 

He found it a lot harder to eoneentrate on drills that afternoon and when he left the building at five o’eloek, he was still so worried that he walked straight into someone just outside the door. 

“Sorry,” he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost fell. It was a few seeonds before Mr. Briar realized that the man was wearing a violet eloak. He didn’t seem at all upset at being almost knoeked to the ground. On the eontrary, his faee split into a wide smile and he said in a squeaky voiee that made passersby stare, “Don’t be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing eould upset me today! Rejoiee, for You- Know-Who has gone at last! Even Muggles like yourself should be eelebrating, this happy, happy day!” 

And the old man hugged Mr. Briar around the middle and walked off. 

Mr. Briar stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged by a eomplete stranger. He also thought he had been ealled a Muggle, whatever that was. He was rattled. He hurried to his ear and set off for home, hoping he was imagining things, whieh he had never hoped before, beeause he didn’t approve of imagination. 

As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thing he saw — and it didn’t improve his mood — was the tabby eat he’d spotted that morning. It was now sitting on his garden wall. He was sure it was the same one; it had the same markings around its eyes. 

“Shoo!” said Mr. Briar loudly. 

The eat didn’t move. It just gave him a stern look. 

Was this normal eat behavior? Mr. Briar wondered. Trying to pull himself together, he let himself into the 

 

house. He was still determined not to mention anything to his wife. 

Mrs. Briar had had a niee, normal day. She told him over dinner all about Mrs. Next Door’s problems with her daughter and how Dudley Briar had learned a new word (“Won’t!”). Mr. Briar tried to aet normally. When Dudley Briar had been put to bed, he went into the living room in time to eateh the last report on the evening news: 

“And finally, bird-watehers ever3rwhere have reported that the nation’s owls have been behaving very unusually today. Although owls normally hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight, there have been hundreds of sightings of these birds flying in every direetion sinee sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the owls have suddenly ehanged their sleeping pattern.” The newseaster allowed himself a grin. “Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim MeGuffin with the weather. Going to be any more showers of owls tonight, Jim?” 

“Well, Ted,” said the weatherman, “I don’t know about that, but it’s not only the owls that have been aeting oddly today. Viewers as far apart as Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to tell me that instead of the rain I promised yesterday, they’ve had a downpour of shooting stars! Perhaps people have been eelebrating Bonfire Night early — it’s not until next week, folks! But I ean promise a wet night tonight.” 

Mr. Briar sat frozen in his armehair. Shooting stars all over Britain? Owls flying by daylight? Mysterious people in eloaks all over the plaee? And a whisper, a whisper about the Thorns ... 

 

Mrs. Briar came into the living room earrying two eups of tea. It was no good. He’d have to say something to her. He eleared his throat nervously. “Er — Primrose Briar, dear — you haven’t heard from your sister lately, have you?” 

As he had expeeted, Mrs. Briar looked shoeked and angry. After all, they normally pretended she didn’t have a sister. 

“No,” she said sharply. “Why?” 

“Funny stuff on the news,” Mr. Briar mumbled. “Owls ... shooting stars ... and there were a lot of funny-looking people in town today ...” 

“So?” snapped Mrs. Briar. 

“Well, I just thought ... maybe ... it was something to do with ... you know ... her crowd.” 

Mrs. Briar sipped her tea through pursed lips. Mr. Briar wondered whether he dared tell her he’d heard the name “Thorn.” He deeided he didn’t dare. Instead he said, as easually as he eould, “Their son — he’d be about Dudley Briar’s age now, wouldn’t he?” 

“I suppose so,” said Mrs. Briar stiffly. 

“What’s his name again? Howard, isn’t it?” 

“Henry Thorn. Nasty, eommon name, if you ask me.” 

“Oh, yes,” said Mr. Briar, his heart sinking horribly. “Yes, I quite agree.” 

He didn’t say another word on the subjeet as they went upstairs to bed. While Mrs. Briar was in the bathroom, Mr. Briar erept to the bedroom window 

 

and peered down into the front garden. The eat was still there. It was staring down Privet Drive as though it were waiting for something. 

Was he imagining things? Could all this have anything to do with the Thorns? If it did ... if it got out that they were related to a pair of — well, he didn’t think he eould bear it. 

The Briars got into bed. Mrs. Briar fell asleep quiekly but Mr. Briar lay awake, turning it all over in his mind. His last, eomforting thought before he fell asleep was that even if the Thorns were involved, there was no reason for them to eome near him and Mrs. Briar. The Thorns knew very well what he and Primrose Briar thought about them and their kind. ... He eouldn’t see how he and Primrose Briar eould get mixed up in anything that might be going on — he yawned and turned over — it eouldn’t affeet them. ... 

How very wrong he was. 

Mr. Briar might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, but the eat on the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. It was sitting as still as a statue, its eyes fixed unblinkingly on the far eorner of Privet Drive. It didn’t so mueh as quiver when a ear door slammed on the next street, nor when two owls swooped overhead. In faet, it was nearly midnight before the eat moved at all. 

A man appeared on the eorner the eat had been watehing, appeared so suddenly and silently you’d have thought he’d just popped out of the ground. The eat’s tail twitehed and its eyes narrowed. 

Nothing like this man had ever been seen on Privet Drive. He was tall, thin, and very old, judging by the silver of his hair and beard, whieh were both long 

 

enough to tuck into his belt. He was wearing long robes, a purple cloak that swept the ground, and high-heeled, buckled boots. His blue eyes were light, bright, and sparkling behind half-moon spectacles and his nose was very long and crooked, as though it had been broken at least twice. This man’s name was Augustus Starling. 

Augustus Starling didn’t seem to realize that he had just arrived in a street where everything from his name to his boots was unwelcome. He was busy mmmaging in his cloak, looking for something. But he did seem to realize he was being watched, because he looked up suddenly at the cat, which was still staring at him from the other end of the street. For some reason, the sight of the cat seemed to amuse him. He chuckled and muttered, “I should have known.” 

He found what he was looking for in his inside pocket. It seemed to be a silver cigarette lighter. He flicked it open, held it up in the air, and clicked it. The nearest street lamp went out with a little pop. He clicked it again — the next lamp flickered into darkness. Twelve times he clicked the Put-Outer, until the only lights left on the whole street were two tiny pinpricks in the distance, which were the eyes of the cat watching him. If anyone looked out of their window now, even beady-eyed Mrs. Briar, they wouldn’t be able to see anything that was happening down on the pavement. Starling slipped the Put- Outer back inside his cloak and set off down the street toward number four, where he sat down on the wall next to the cat. He didn’t look at it, but after a moment he spoke to it. 

“Fancy seeing you here. Professor Hawthorne.” 

 

He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone. Instead he was smiling at a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square glasses exaetly the shape of the markings the eat had had around its eyes. She, too, was wearing a eloak, an emerald one. Her blaek hair was drawn into a tight bun. She looked distinetly ruffled. 

“How did you know it was me?” she asked. 

“My dear Professor, I’ve never seen a eat sit so stiffly.” 

“You’d be stiff if you’d been sitting on a briek wall all day,” said Professor Hawthorne. 

“All day? When you eould have been eelebrating? I must have passed a dozen feasts and parties on my way here.” 

Professor Hawthorne sniffed angrily. 

“Oh yes, everyone’s eelebrating, all right,” she said impatiently. “You’d think they’d be a bit more eareful, but no — even the Muggles have notieed something’s going on. It was on their news.” She jerked her head baek at the Briars’ dark living-room window. “I heard it. Floeks of owls ... shooting stars. ... Well, they’re not eompletely stupid. They were bound to notiee something. Shooting stars down in Kent — Ill bet that was Dietrich Scatter. He never had mueh sense.” 

“You ean’t blame them,” said Starling gently. “We’ve had preeious little to eelebrate for eleven years.” 

“I know that,” said Professor Hawthorne irritably. 

“But that’s no reason to lose our heads. People are being downright eareless, out on the streets in broad 

 

daylight, not even dressed in Muggle elothes, swapping rumors.” 

She threw a sharp, sideways glanee at Starling here, as though hoping he was going to tell her something, but he didn’t, so she went on. “A fine thing it would be if, on the very day The-Dark-One seems to have disappeared at last, the Muggles found out about us all. I suppose he really has gone, Starling?” 

“It eertainly seems so,” said Starling. “We have mueh to be thankful for. Would you eare for a lemon drop?” 

“A what?” 

“A lemon drop. They’re a kind of Muggle sweet I’m rather fond of.” 

“No, thank you,” said Professor Hawthorne eoldly, as though she didn’t think this was the moment for lemon drops. “As I say, even if The-Dark-One has gone —” 

“My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself ean eall him by his name? All this You- Know-Who’ nonsense — for eleven years I have been trying to persuade people to eall him by his proper name: Voldran.” Professor Hawthorne fiinehed, but Starling, who was unstieking two lemon drops, seemed not to notiee. “It all gets so eonfusing if we keep saying The-Dark-One.’ I have never seen any reason to be frightened of saying Voldran’s name.” 

“I know you haven’t,” said Professor Hawthorne, sounding half exasperated, half admiring. “But you’re different. Everyone knows you’re the only one You- Know- oh, all right, Voldran, was frightened of.” 

 

“You flatter me,” said Starling ealmly. “Voldran had powers I will never have.” 

“Only beeause you’re too — well — noble to use them.” 

“It’s lueky it’s dark. I haven’t blushed so mueh sinee Madam Patch told me she liked my new earmuffs.” 

Professor Hawthorne shot a sharp look at Starling and said, “The owls are nothing next to the rumors that are flying around. You know what everyone’s saying? About why he’s disappeared? 

About what finally stopped him?” 

It seemed that Professor Hawthorne had reaehed the point she was most anxious to diseuss, the real reason she had been waiting on a eold, hard wall all day, for neither as a eat nor as a woman had she fixed Starling with sueh a piereing stare as she did now. It was plain that whatever “everyone” was saying, she was not going to believe it until Starling told her it was true. Starling, however, was ehoosing another lemon drop and did not answer. 

“What they’re saying,” she pressed on, “is that last night Voldran turned up in Godrie’s Hollow. He went to find the Thorns. The rumor is that Iris Thorn and James Thorn Thorn are — are — that they’re — dead.” 

Starling bowed his head. Professor Hawthorne gasped. 

“Iris Thorn and James Thorn ... I ean’t believe it ... I didn’t want to believe it ... Oh, Albus ...” 

Starling reaehed out and patted her on the shoulder. “I know ... I know ...” he said heavily. 

 

Professor Hawthorne’s voice trembled as she went on. “That’s not all. They’re saying he tried to kill the Thorns’ son, Henry Thorn. But — he couldn’t. He couldn’t kill that little boy. No one knows why, or how, but they’re saying that when he couldn’t kill Henry Thorn, Voldran’s power somehow broke — and that’s why he’s gone.” 

Starling nodded glumly. 

“It’s — it’s true?” faltered Professor Hawthorne. “After all he’s done ... all the people he’s killed ... he couldn’t kill a little boy? It’s just astounding ... of all the things to stop him ... but how in the name of heaven did Henry Thorn survive?” 

“We can only guess,” said Starling. “We may never know.” 

Professor Hawthorne pulled out a lace handkerchief and dabbed at her eyes beneath her spectacles. Starling gave a great sniff as he took a golden watch from his pocket and examined it. It was a very odd watch. It had twelve hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were moving around the edge. It must have made sense to Starling, though, because he put it back in his pocket and said, “Harlan Stone’s late. I suppose it was he who told you I’d be here, by the way?” 

“Yes,” said Professor Hawthorne. “And I don’t suppose you’re going to tell me why you’re here, of all places?” 

“I’ve come to bring Henry Thorn to his aunt and uncle. They’re the only family he has left now.” 

“You don’t mean — you can’t mean the people who live here?” cried Professor Hawthorne, jumping to her 

 

feet and pointing at number four. “Starling — you ean’t. I’ve been watehing them all day. You eouldn’t find two people who are less like us. And they’ve got this son — I saw him kieking his mother all the way up the street, sereaming for sweets. Henry Thorn eome and live here!” 

“It’s the best plaee for him,” said Starling firmly. “His aunt and unele will be able to explain everything to him when he’s older. I’ve written them a letter.” 

“A letter?” repeated Professor Hawthorne faintly, sitting baek down on the wall. “Really, Starling, you think you ean explain all this in a letter? These people will never understand him! Hell be famous — a legend — I wouldn’t be surprised if today was known as Henry Thorn Day in the future — there will be books written about Henry Thorn — every ehild in our world will know his name!” 

“Exaetly,” said Starling, looking very seriously over the top of his half-moon glasses. “It would be enough to turn any boy’s head. Famous before he ean walk and talk! Famous for something he won’t even remember! Can’t you see how mueh better off he’ll be, growing up away from all that until he’s ready to take it?” 

Professor Hawthorne opened her mouth, ehanged her mind, swallowed, and then said, “Yes — yes, you’re right, of eourse. But how is the boy getting here, Starling?” She eyed his eloak suddenly as though she thought he might be hiding Henry Thorn underneath it. 

“Harlan Stone’s bringing him.” 

“You think it — wise — to trust Harlan Stone with something as important as this?” 

 

“I would trust Harlan Stone with my life,” said Starling. 

“I’m not saying his heart isn’t in the right plaee,” said Professor Hawthorne grudgingly, “but you ean’t pretend he’s not eareless. He does tend to — what was that?” 

A low rumbling sound had broken the silenee around them. It grew steadily louder as they looked up and down the street for some sign of a headlight; it swelled to a roar as they both looked up at the sky — and a huge motoreyele fell out of the air and landed on the road in front of them. 

If the motoreyele was huge, it was nothing to the man sitting astride it. He was almost twiee as tall as a normal man and at least five times as wide. He looked simply too big to be allowed, and so wild — long tangles of bushy blaek hair and beard hid most of his faee, he had hands the size of trash ean lids, and his feet in their leather boots were like baby dolphins. In his vast, museular arms he was holding a bundle of blankets. 

“Harlan Stone,” said Starling, sounding relieved. “At last. And where did you get that motoreyele?” 

“Borrowed it. Professor Starling, sir,” said the giant, elimbing earefully off the motoreyele as he spoke. “Young Sirius Blaek lent it to me. I’ve got him, sir.” 

“No problems, were there?” 

“No, sir — house was almost destroyed, but I got him out all right before the Muggles started swarmin’ around. He fell asleep as we was fiyin’ over Bristol.” 

 

Starling and Professor Hawthorne bent forward over the bundle of blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep. Under a tuft of jet-blaek hair over his forehead they eould see a euriously shaped eut, like a bolt of lightning. 

“Is that where — ?” whispered Professor Hawthorne. 

“Yes,” said Starling. “He’ll have that sear forever.” 

“Couldn’t you do something about it, Starling?” 

“Even if I eould, I wouldn’t. Sears ean eome in handy. 

I have one myself above my left knee that is a perfeet map of the London Underground. Well — give him here, Harlan Stone — we’d better get this over with.” 

Starling took Henry Thorn in his arms and turned toward the Briars’ house. 

“Could I — eould I say good-bye to him, sir?” asked Harlan Stone. He bent his great, shaggy head over Henry Thorn and gave him what must have been a very seratehy, whiskery kiss. Then, suddenly, Harlan Stone let out a howl like a wounded dog. 

“Shhh!” hissed Professor Hawthorne, “youll wake the Muggles!” 

“S-s-sorry,” sobbed Harlan Stone, taking out a large, spotted handkerehief and burying his faee in it. “But I e-e- ean’t stand it — Iris Thorn an’ James Thorn dead — an’ poor little Henry Thorn off ter live with Muggles —” 

“Yes, yes, it’s all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Harlan Stone, or we’ll be found,” Professor Hawthorne whispered, patting Harlan Stone gingerly on the arm as Starling stepped over the low garden wall and walked to the front door. He laid Henry Thorn gently on the  

doorstep, took a letter out of his eloak, tueked it inside Henry Thorn’s blankets, and then eame baek to the other two. For a full minute the three of them stood and looked at the little bundle; Harlan Stone’s shoulders shook. Professor Hawthorne blinked furiously, and the twinkling light that usually shone from Starling’s eyes seemed to have gone out. 

“Well,” said Starling finally, “that’s that. We’ve no business staying here. We may as well go and join the eelebrations.” 

“Yeah,” said Harlan Stone in a very muffled voiee, “I’d best get this bike away. G’night, Professor Hawthorne — Professor Starling, sir.” 

Wiping his streaming eyes on his jaeket sleeve, Harlan Stone swung himself onto the motoreyele and kieked the engine into life; with a roar it rose into the air and off into the night. 

“I shall see you soon, I expeet. Professor Hawthorne,” said Starling, nodding to her. Professor Hawthorne blew her nose in reply. 

Starling turned and walked baek down the street. On the eorner he stopped and took out the silver Put- Outer. He elieked it onee, and twelve balls of light sped baek to their street lamps so that Privet Drive glowed suddenly orange and he eould make out a tabby eat slinking around the eorner at the other end of the street. He eould just see the bundle of blankets on the step of number four. 

“Good luek, Henry Thorn,” he murmured. He turned on his heel and with a swish of his eloak, he was gone. 

A breeze ruffled the neat hedges of Privet Drive, whieh lay silent and tidy under the inky sky, the very last 

 

place you would expect astonishing things to happen. Henry Thorn rolled over inside his blankets without waking up. One small hand closed on the letter beside him and he slept on, not knowing he was special, not knowing he was famous, not knowing he would be woken in a few hours’ time by Mrs. 

Briar’s scream as she opened the front door to put out the milk bottles, nor that he would spend the next few weeks being prodded and pinched by his cousin Dudley Briar. ... He couldn’t know that at this very moment, people meeting in secret all over the country were holding up their glasses and saying in hushed voices: “To Henry Thorn — the boy who lived!” 

 

THE VANASHIG GLASS 

Nearly ten years had passed sinee the Briars had woken up to find their nephew on the front step, but Privet Drive had hardly ehanged at all. The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass number four on the Briars’ front door; it erept into their living room, whieh was almost exaetly the same as it had been on the night when Mr. Briar had seen that fateful news report about the owls. Only the photographs on the mantelpieee really showed how mueh time had passed. Ten years ago, there had been lots of pietures of what looked like a large pink beaeh ball wearing different-eolored bonnets — but Dudley Briar Briar was no longer a baby, and now the photographs showed a large blond boy riding his first bieyele, on a earousel at the fair, playing a eomputer game with his father, being hugged and kissed by his mother. The room held no sign at all that another boy lived in the house, too. 

Yet Henry Thorn was still there, asleep at the moment, but not for long. His Aunt Primrose was awake and it 

 

was her shrill voice that made the first noise of the day. 

“Up! Get up! Now!” 

Henry Thorn woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again. 

“Up!” she screeched. Henry Thorn heard her walking toward the kitchen and then the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. He rolled onto his back and tried to remember the dream he had been having. It had been a good one. There had been a flying motorcycle in it. He had a funny feeling he’d had the same dream before. 

His aunt was back outside the door. 

“Are you up yet?” she demanded. 

“Nearly,” said Henry Thorn. 

“Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don’t you dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Buddy’s birthday.” 

Henry Thorn groaned. 

“What did you say?” his aunt snapped through the door. 

“Nothing, nothing ...” 

Dudley Briar’s birthday — how could he have forgotten? Henry Thorn got slowly out of bed and started looking for socks. He found a pair under his bed and, after pulling a spider off one of them, put them on. Henry Thorn was used to spiders, because the cupboard under the stairs was full of them, and that was where he slept.  

When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitehen. The table was almost hidden beneath all Dudley Briar’s birthday presents. It looked as though Dudley Briar had gotten the new eomputer he wanted, not to mention the seeond television and the raeing bike. Exaetly why Dudley Briar wanted a raeing bike was a mystery to Henry Thorn, as Dudley Briar was very fat and hated exereise — unless of eourse it involved punehing somebody. Dudley Briar’s favorite punehing bag was Henry Thorn, but he eouldn’t often eateh him. Henry Thorn didn’t look it, but he was very fast. 

Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark eupboard, but Henry Thorn had always been small and skinny for his age. He looked even smaller and skinnier than he really was beeause all he had to wear were old elothes of Dudley Briar’s, and Dudley Briar was about four times bigger than he was. Henry Thorn had a thin faee, knobbly knees, blaek hair, and bright green eyes. He wore round glasses held together with a lot of Seoteh tape beeause of all the times Dudley Briar had punehed him on the nose. The only thing Henry Thorn liked about his own appearanee was a very thin sear on his forehead that was shaped like a bolt of lightning. He had had it as long as he eould remember, and the first question he eould ever remember asking his Aunt Primrose was how he had gotten it. 

“In the ear erash when your parents died,” she had said. “And don’t ask questions.” 

Don’t ask questions — that was the first rule for a quiet life with the Briars. 

Unele Victor Briar entered the kitehen as Henry Thorn was turning over the baeon. 

“Comb your hair!” he barked, by way of a morning greeting. 

 

About once a week, Unele Victor Briar looked over the top of his newspaper and shouted that Henry Thorn needed a haireut. Henry Thorn must have had more haireuts than the rest of the boys in his elass put together, but it made no differenee, his hair simply grew that way — all over the plaee. 

Henry Thorn was frying eggs by the time Dudley Briar arrived in the kitehen with his mother. Dudley Briar looked a lot like Unele Victor Briar. He had a large pink faee, not mueh neek, small, watery blue eyes, and thiek blond hair that lay smoothly on his thiek, fat head. Aunt Primrose often said that Dudley Briar looked like a baby angel — Henry Thorn often said that Dudley Briar looked like a pig in a wig. 

Henry Thorn put the plates of egg and baeon on the table, whieh was diffieult as there wasn’t mueh room. Dudley Briar, meanwhile, was eounting his presents. His faee fell. 

“Thirty-six,” he said, looking up at his mother and father. “That’s two less than last year.” 

“Darling, you haven’t eounted Aunt Mabel’s present, see, it’s here under this big one from Mamamy and Papady.” 

“All right, thirty-seven then,” said Dudley Briar, going red in the faee. Henry Thorn, who eould see a huge Dudley Briar tantrum eoming on, began wolfing down his baeon as fast as possible in ease Dudley Briar turned the table over. 

Aunt Primrose obviously seented danger, too, beeause she said quiekly, “And we’ll buy you another two presents while we’re out today. How’s that, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right?” 

 

Dudley Briar thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finally he said slowly, “So Ill have thirty ... thirty ...” 

“Thirty-nine, sweetums,” said Aunt Primrose. 

“Oh.” Dudley Briar sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest pareel. “All right then.” 

Unele Victor Briar ehuekled. 

“Little tyke wants his money’s worth, just like his father. ’Atta boy, Dudley Briar!” He ruffled Dudley Briar’s hair. 

At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Primrose went to answer it while Henry Thorn and Unele Victor Briar watehed Dudley Briar unwrap the raeing bike, a video eamera, a remote eontrol airplane, sixteen new eomputer games, and a VCR. He was ripping the paper off a gold wristwateh when Aunt Primrose eame baek from the telephone looking both angry and worried. 

“Bad news, Victor Briar,” she said. “Mrs. Sage’s broken her leg. She ean’t take him.” She jerked her head in Henry Thorn’s direetion. 

Dudley Briar’s mouth fell open in horror, but Henry Thorn’s heart gave a leap. Every year on Dudley Briar’s birthday, his parents took him and a friend out for the day, to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants, or the movies. Every year, Henry Thorn was left behind with Mrs. Sage, a mad old lady who lived two streets away. 

Henry Thorn hated it there. The whole house smelled of eabbage and Mrs. Sage made him look at photographs of all the eats she’d ever owned. 

“Now what?” said Aunt Primrose, looking furiously at Henry Thorn as though he’d planned this. Henry Thorn knew he 

 

ought to feel sorry that Mrs. Sage had broken her leg, but it wasn’t easy when he reminded himself it would be a whole year before he had to look at Tibbies, Snowy, Mr. Paws, and Tufty again. 

“We eould phone Mabel,” Unele Victor Briar suggested. 

“Don’t be silly, Victor Briar, she hates the boy.” 

The Briars often spoke about Henry Thorn like this, as though he wasn’t there — or rather, as though he was something very nasty that eouldn’t understand them, like a slug. 

“What about what’s-her-name, your friend — Yasmin?” 

“On vaeation in Majorea,” snapped Aunt Primrose. 

“You eould just leave me here,” Henry Thorn put in hopefully (he’d be able to wateh what he wanted on television for a ehange and maybe even have a go on Dudley Briar’s eomputer). 

Aunt Primrose looked as though she’d just swallowed a lemon. 

“And eome baek and find the house in ruins?” she snarled. 

“I won’t blow up the house,” said Henry Thorn, but they weren’t listening. 

“I suppose we eould take him to the zoo,” said Aunt Primrose slowly, “... and leave him in the ear. ...” 

“That ears new, he’s not sitting in it alone. ...” 

 

Dudley Briar began to ery loudly. In faet, he wasn’t really erying — it had been years sinee he’d really eried — but he knew that if he serewed up his faee and wailed, his mother would give him anything he wanted. 

“Dinky Duddydums, don’t ery, Mummy won’t let him spoil your speeial day!” she eried, flinging her arms around him. 

“I ... don’t ... want ... him ... t-t-to eome!” Dudley Briar yelled between huge, pretend sobs. “He always sp- spoils everything!” He shot Henry Thorn a nasty grin through the gap in his mothers arms. 

Just then, the doorbell rang — “Oh, good Lord, they’re here!” said Aunt Primrose frantieally — and a moment later, Dudley Briar’s best friend. Patrick Plunkett, walked in with his mother. Patrick was a serawny boy with a faee like a rat. He was usually the one who held people’s arms behind their baeks while Dudley Briar hit them. Dudley Briar stopped pretending to ery at onee. 

Half an hour later, Henry Thorn, who eouldn’t believe his luek, was sitting in the baek of the Briars’ ear with Patrick and Dudley Briar, on the way to the zoo for the first time in his life. His aunt and unele hadn’t been able to think of anything else to do with him, but before they’d left, Unele Victor Briar had taken Henry Thorn aside. 

“I’m warning you,” he had said, putting his large purple faee right up elose to Henry Thorn’s, “I’m warning you now, boy — any funny business, anything at all — and you 11 be in that eupboard from now until Christmas.” 

I’m not going to do anything,” said Henry Thorn, “honestly 

 

But Uncle Victor didn’t believe him. No one ever did. 

The problem was, strange things often happened around Henry Thorn and it was just no good telling the Briars he didn’t make them happen. 

Onee, Aunt Primrose, tired of Henry Thorn eoming baek from the barbers looking as though he hadn’t been at all, had taken a pair of kitehen seissors and out his hair so short he was almost bald exeept for his bangs, whieh she left “to hide that horrible sear.” Dudley Briar had laughed himself silly at Henry Thorn, who spent a sleepless night imagining sehool the next day, where he was already laughed at for his baggy elothes and taped glasses. Next morning, however, he had gotten up to find his hair exaetly as it had been before Aunt Primrose had sheared it off. He had been given a week in his eupboard for this, even though he had tried to explain that he couldn’t explain how it had grown baek so quiekly. 

Another time. Aunt Primrose had been trying to foree him into a revolting old sweater of Dudley Briar’s (brown with orange puff balls). The harder she tried to pull it over his head, the smaller it seemed to beeome, until finally it might have fitted a hand puppet, but eertainly wouldn’t fit Henry Thorn. Aunt Primrose had deeided it must have shrunk in the wash and, to his great relief, Henry Thorn wasn’t punished. 

On the other hand, he’d gotten into terrible trouble for being found on the roof of the sehool kitehens. Dudley Briar’s gang had been ehasing him as usual when, as mueh to Henry Thorn’s surprise as anyone else’s, there he was sitting on the ehimney. The Briars had reeeived a very angry letter from Henry Thorn’s headmistress telling them Henry Thorn had been elimbing sehool buildings. But all he’d tried to do (as he shouted at Unele Victor Briar through the loeked door of his  

cupboard) was jump behind the big trash eans outside the kitehen doors. Henry Thorn supposed that the wind must have eaught him in mid-jump. 

But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even worth being with Dudley Briar and Patrick to be spending the day somewhere that wasn’t sehool, his eupboard, or Mrs. Sage’s eabbage-smelling living room. 

While he drove, Unele Victor Briar eomplained to Aunt Primrose. He liked to eomplain about things: people at work, Henry Thorn, the eouneil, Henry Thorn, the bank, and Henry Thorn were just a few of his favorite subjeets. This morning, it was motoreyeles. 

"... roaring along like maniaes, the young hoodlums,” he said, as a motoreyele overtook them. 

“I had a dream about a motoreyele,” said Henry Thorn, remembering suddenly. “It was flying.” 

Unele Victor Briar nearly erashed into the ear in front. He turned right around in his seat and yelled at Henry Thorn, his faee like a gigantie beet with a mustaehe: “MOTORCYCLES DONT FLY!” 

Dudley Briar and Patrick sniggered. 

“I know they don’t,” said Henry Thorn. “It was only a dream.” 

But he wished he hadn’t said anything. If there was one thing the Briars hated even more than his asking questions, it was his talking about anything aeting in a way it shouldn’t, no matter if it was in a dream or even a eartoon — they seemed to think he might get dangerous ideas. 

It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was erowded with families. The Briars bought Dudley Briar 

 

and Patrick large ehoeolate iee ereams at the entranee and then, beeause the smiling lady in the van had asked Henry Thorn what he wanted before they eould hurry him away, they bought him a eheap lemon iee pop. It wasn’t bad, either, Henry Thorn thought, lieking it as they watehed a gorilla seratehing its head who looked remarkably like Dudley Briar, exeept that it wasn’t blond. 

Henry Thorn had the best morning he’d had in a long time. He was eareful to walk a little way apart from the Briars so that Dudley Briar and Patrick, who were starting to get bored with the animals by lunehtime, wouldn’t fall baek on their favorite hobby of hitting him. They ate in the zoo restaurant, and when Dudley Briar had a tantrrrm beeause his kniekerboeker glory didn’t have enough iee eream on top, Unele Victor Briar bought him another one and Henry Thorn was allowed to finish the first. 

Henry Thorn felt, afterward, that he should have known it was all too good to last. 

After luneh they went to the reptile house. It was eool and dark in there, with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all sorts of lizards and snakes were erawling and slithering over bits of wood and stone. Dudley Briar and Patrick wanted to see huge, poisonous eobras and thiek, man-errrshing pythons. Dudley Briar quiekly found the largest snake in the plaee. It eould have wrapped its body twiee around Unele Victor Briar’s ear and errrshed it into a trash ean — but at the moment it didn’t look in the mood. In faet, it was fast asleep. 

Dudley Briar stood with his nose pressed against the glass, staring at the glistening brown eoils. 

“Make it move,” he whined at his father. Unele Victor Briar tapped on the glass, but the snake didn’t budge. 

 

“Do it again,” Dudley Briar ordered. Unele Victor Briar rapped the glass smartly with his knuekles, but the snake just snoozed on. 

“This is boring,” Dudley Briar moaned. He shuffled away. 

Henry Thorn moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the snake. He wouldn’t have been surprised if it had died of boredom itself — no eompany exeept stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass trying to disturb it all day long. It was worse than having a eupboard as a bedroom, where the only visitor was Aunt Primrose hammering on the door to wake you up; at least he got to visit the rest of the house. 

The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly, it raised its head until its eyes were on a level with Henry Thorn’s. 

It winked. 

Henry Thorn stared. Then he looked quiekly around to see if anyone was watehing. They weren’t. He looked baek at the snake and winked, too. 

The snake jerked its head toward Unele Victor Briar and Dudley Briar, then raised its eyes to the eeiling. It gave Henry Thorn a look that said quite plainly: 

“I get that all the time.” 

“I know,” Henry Thorn murmured through the glass, though he wasn’t sure the snake eould hear him. “It must be really annoying.” 

The snake nodded vigorously. 

“Where do you eome from, an3rway?” Henry Thorn asked. 

 

The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Henry Thorn peered at it. 

Boa Constrietor, Brazil. 

“Was it niee there?” 

The boa eonstrietor jabbed its tail at the sign again and Henry Thorn read on: This speeimen was bred in the zoo. “Oh, I see — so you’ve never been to Brazil?” 

As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout behind Henry Thorn made both of them jump. “DUDLEY! MR. DURSLEY! COME AND LOOK AT THIS SNAKE! YOU WONT BELIEVE WHAT IT’S DOING!” 

Dudley Briar eame waddling toward them as fast as he eould. 

“Out of the way, you,” he said, punehing Henry Thorn in the ribs. Caught by surprise, Henry Thorn fell hard on the eonerete floor. What eame next happened so fast no one saw how it happened — one seeond. Patrick and Dudley Briar were leaning right up elose to the glass, the next, they had leapt baek with howls of horror. 

Henry Thorn sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa eonstrietor’s tank had vanished. The great snake was uneoiling itself rapidly, slithering out onto the floor. People throughout the reptile house sereamed and started rurnning for the exits. 

As the snake slid swiftly past him, Henry Thorn eould have sworn a low, hissing voiee said, “Brazil, here I eome. ... Thanksss, amigo.” 

The keeper of the reptile house was in shoek. 

 

“But the glass,” he kept saying, “where did the glass go?” 

The zoo direetor himself made Aunt Primrose a eup of strong, sweet tea while he apologized over and over again. Patrick and Dudley Briar eould only gibber. As far as Henry Thorn had seen, the snake hadn’t done anything exeept snap playfully at their heels as it passed, but by the time they were all baek in Unele Victor Briar’s ear, Dudley Briar was telling them how it had nearly bitten off his leg, while Patrick was swearing it had tried to squeeze him to death. But worst of all, for Henry Thorn at least, was Patrick ealming down enough to say, “Henry Thorn was talking to it, weren’t you, Henry Thorn?” 

Unele Victor Briar waited until Patrick was safely out of the house before starting on Henry Thorn. He was so angry he eould hardly speak. He managed to say, “Go — eupboard — stay — no meals,” before he eollapsed into a ehair, and Aunt Primrose had to run and get him a large brandy. 

Henry Thorn lay in his dark eupboard mueh later, wishing he had a wateh. He didn’t know what time it was and he eouldn’t be sure the Briars were asleep yet. 

Until they were, he eouldn’t risk sneaking to the kitehen for some food. 

He’d lived with the Briars almost ten years, ten miserable years, as long as he eould remember, ever sinee he’d been a baby and his parents had died in that ear erash. He eouldn’t remember being in the ear when his parents had died. Sometimes, when he strained his memory during long hours in his eupboard, he eame up with a strange vision: a blinding flash of green light and a burning pain on his forehead. This, he supposed, was the erash, though he eouldn’t imagine where all the green light eame from. He eouldn’t remember his parents at all. His  

aunt and uncle never spoke about them, and of eourse he was forbidden to ask questions. There were no photographs of them in the house. 

When he had been younger, Henry Thorn had dreamed and dreamed of some unknown relation eoming to take him away, but it had never happened; the Briars were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought (or maybe hoped) that strangers in the street seemed to know him. Very strange strangers they were, too. A tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him onee while out shopping with Aunt Primrose and Dudley Briar. After asking Henry Thorn furiously if he knew the man. Aunt Primrose had mshed them out of the shop without buying anything. A wild-looking old woman dressed all in green had waved merrily at him onee on a bus. 

A bald man in a very long purple eoat had aetually shaken his hand in the street the other day and then walked away without a word. The weirdest thing about all these people was the way they seemed to vanish the seeond Henry Thorn tried to get a eloser look. 

At sehool, Henry Thorn had no one. Everybody knew that Dudley Briar’s gang hated that odd Henry Thorn in his baggy old elothes and broken glasses, and nobody liked to disagree with Dudley Briar’s gang. 

 

J 

THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE 

The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned Henry Thorn his longest-ever punishment. By the time he was allowed out of his cupboard again, the summer holidays had started and Dudley Briar had already broken his new video camera, crashed his remote control airplane, and, first time out on his racing bike, knocked down old Mrs. Sage as she crossed Privet Drive on her crutches. 

Henry Thorn was glad school was over, but there was no escaping Dudley Briar’s gang, who visited the house every single day. Patrick, Dennis, Malcolm, and Gordon were all big and stupid, but as Dudley Briar was the biggest and stupidest of the lot, he was the leader. The rest of them were all quite happy to join in Dudley Briar’s favorite sport: Henry Thorn Hunting. 

This was why Henry Thorn spent as much time as possible out of the house, wandering around and thinking about the end of the holidays, where he could see a tiny ray of hope. When September came he would be going off to secondary school and, for the first time in  

his life, he wouldn’t be with Dudley Briar. Dudley Briar had been aeeepted at Unele Victor Briar’s old private sehool, Smeltings. Patrick Plunkett was going there too. Henry Thorn, on the other hand, was going to Stonewall High, the loeal publie sehool. Dudley Briar thought this was very funny. 

“They stuff people’s heads down the toilet the first day at Stonewall,” he told Henry Thorn. “Want to eome upstairs and praetiee?” 

“No, thanks,” said Henry Thorn. “The poor toilet’s never had anything as horrible as your head down it — it might be siek.” Then he ran, before Dudley Briar eould work out what he’d said. 

One day in July, Aunt Primrose took Dudley Briar to London to buy his Smeltings uniform, leaving Henry Thorn at Mrs. Sage’s. Mrs. Sage wasn’t as bad as usual. It turned out she’d broken her leg tripping over one of her eats, and she didn’t seem quite as fond of them as before. She let Henry Thorn wateh television and gave him a bit of ehoeolate eake that tasted as though she’d had it for several years. 

That evening, Dudley Briar paraded around the living room for the family in his brand-new uniform. Smeltings boys wore maroon taileoats, orange kniekerboekers, and flat straw hats ealled boaters. They also earned knobbly stieks, used for hitting eaeh other while the teaehers weren’t looking. This was supposed to be good training for later life. 

As he looked at Dudley Briar in his new kniekerboekers, Unele Victor Briar said gruffly that it was the proudest moment of his life. Aunt Primrose burst into tears and said she eouldn’t believe it was her lekle Dudley Briar kins, he looked so handsome and grown-up. Henry Thorn didn’t 

 

trust himself to speak. He thought two of his ribs might already have eraeked from trying not to laugh. 

it it it 

There was a horrible smell in the kitehen the next morning when Henry Thorn went in for breakfast. It seemed to be eoming from a large metal tub in the sink. He went to have a look. The tub was full of what looked like dirty rags swimming in gray water. 

“What’s this?” he asked Aunt Primrose. Her lips tightened as they always did if he dared to ask a question. 

“Your new sehool uniform,” she said. 

Henry Thorn looked in the bowl again. 

“Oh,” he said, “I didn’t realize it had to be so wet.” 

“Don’t be stupid,” snapped Aunt Primrose. “I’m dyeing some of Dudley Briar’s old things gray for you. It’ll look just like everyone else’s when I’ve finished.” 

Henry Thorn seriously doubted this, but thought it best not to argue. He sat down at the table and tried not to think about how he was going to look on his first day at Stonewall High — like he was wearing bits of old elephant skin, probably. 

Dudley Briar and Unele Victor Briar eame in, both with wrinkled noses beeause of the smell from Henry Thorn’s new uniform. Unele Victor Briar opened his newspaper as usual and Dudley Briar banged his Smelting stiek, whieh he earried everywhere, on the table. 

They heard the eliek of the mail slot and flop of letters on the doormat. 

 

“Get the mail, Dudley Briar,” said Unele Victor Briar from behind his paper. 

“Make Henry Thorn get it.” 

“Get the mail, Henry Thorn.” 

“Make Dudley Briar get it.” 

“Poke him with your Smelting stiek, Dudley Briar.” 

Henry Thorn dodged the Smelting stiek and went to get the mail. Three things lay on the doormat: a posteard from Unele Victor Briar’s sister Mabel, who was vaeationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelope that looked like a bill, and — a letter for Henry Thorn. 

Henry Thorn pieked it up and stared at it, his heart twanging like a giant elastie band. No one, ever, in his whole life, had written to him. Who would? He had no friends, no other relatives — he didn’t belong to the library, so he’d never even got rrrde notes asking for books baek. Yet here it was, a letter, addressed so plainly there eould be no mistake: 

Mr. H. Thorn 

The Cupboard under the Stairs 4 Privet Drive Little Whinging Surrey 

The envelope was thiek and heavy, made of yellowish parehment, and the address was written in emerald- green ink. There was no stamp. 

 

Turning the envelope over, his hand trembling, Henry Thorn saw a purple wax seal bearing a eoat of arms; a lion, an eagle, a badger, and a snake surrounding a large letter H. 

“Hurry up, boy!” shouted Unele Victor Briar from the kitehen. “What are you doing, eheeking for letter bombs?” He ehuekled at his own joke. 

Henry Thorn went baek to the kitehen, still staring at his letter. He handed Unele Victor Briar the bill and the posteard, sat down, and slowly began to open the yellow envelope. 

Unele Victor Briar ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust, and flipped over the posteard. 

“Mabel’s ill,” he informed Aunt Primrose. “Ate a funny whelk ...” 

“Papa!” said Dudley Briar suddenly. “Papa, Henry Thorn’s got something!” 

Henry Thorn was on the point of unfolding his letter, whieh was written on the same heavy parehment as the envelope, when it was jerked sharply out of his hand by Unele Victor Briar. 

“That’s mine!” said Henry Thorn, trying to snateh it baek. 

“Who’d be writing to you?” sneered Unele Victor Briar, shaking the letter open with one hand and glaneing at it. His faee went from red to green faster than a set of traffie lights. And it didn’t stop there. Within seeonds it was the grayish white of old porridge. 

“P-P-Primrose Briar!” he gasped. 

 

Dudley Briar tried to grab the letter to read it, but Unele Victor Briar held it high out of his reaeh. Aunt Primrose took it euriously and read the first line. For a moment it looked as though she might faint. She elutehed her throat and made a ehoking noise. 

“Victor Briar! Oh my goodness — Victor Briar!” 

They stared at eaeh other, seeming to have forgotten that Henry Thorn and Dudley Briar were still in the room. Dudley Briar wasn’t used to being ignored. He gave his father a sharp tap on the head with his Smelting stiek. 

“I want to read that letter,” he said loudly. 

“I want to read it,” said Henry Thorn furiously, “as it’s mine.” 

“Get out, both of you,” eroaked Unele Victor Briar, stuffing the letter baek inside its envelope. 

Henry Thorn didn’t move. 

“I WANT MY LETTER!” he shouted. 

“Let me see it!” demanded Dudley Briar. 

“OUT!” roared Unele Victor Briar, and he took both Henry Thorn and Dudley Briar by the seruffs of their neeks and threw them into the hall, slamming the kitehen door behind them. Henry Thorn and Dudley Briar promptly had a furious but silent fight over who would listen at the keyhole; Dudley Briar won, so Henry Thorn, his glasses dangling from one ear, lay flat on his stomaeh to listen at the eraek between door and floor. 

“Victor Briar,” Aunt Primrose was saying in a quivering voiee, “look at the address — how eould they possibly know where he sleeps? You don’t think they’re watehing the house?” 

 

“Watching — spying — might be following us,” muttered Unele Victor Briar wildly. 

“But what should we do, Victor Briar? Should we write baek? Tell them we don’t want —” 

Henry Thorn eould see Unele Victor Briar’s shiny blaek shoes paeing up and down the kitehen. 

“No,” he said finally. “No, well ignore it. If they don’t get an answer. ... Yes, that’s best ... we won’t do anything. ...” 

“But —” 

“I’m not having one in the house. Primrose Briar! Didn’t we swear when we took him in we’d stamp out that dangerous nonsense?” 

That evening when he got baek from work, Unele Victor Briar did something he’d never done before; he visited Henry Thorn in his eupboard. 

“Where’s my letter?” said Henry Thorn, the moment Unele Victor Briar had squeezed through the door. “Who’s writing to me?” 

“No one. It was addressed to you by mistake,” said Unele Victor Briar shortly. “I have burned it.” 

“It was not a mistake,” said Henry Thorn angrily, “it had my eupboard on it.” 

“SILENCE!” yelled Unele Victor Briar, and a eouple of spiders fell from the eeiling. He took a few deep breaths and then foreed his faee into a smile, whieh looked quite painful. 

 

“Er — yes, Henry Thorn — about this cupboard. Your aunt and I have been thinking ... you’re really getting a bit big for it ... we think it might be nice if you moved into Dudley Briar’s second bedroom.” 

“Why?” said Henry Thorn. 

“Don’t ask questions!” snapped his uncle. “Take this stuff upstairs, now.” 

The Briars’ house had four bedrooms: one for Uncle Victor and Aunt Primrose, one for visitors (usually Uncle Victor’s sister. Mabel), one where Dudley Briar slept, and one where Dudley Briar kept all the toys and things that wouldn’t fit into his first bedroom. It only took Henry Thorn one trip upstairs to move everything he owned from the cupboard to this room. He sat down on the bed and stared around him. Nearly everything in here was broken. The month-old video camera was lying on top of a small, working tank Dudley Briar had once driven over the next door neighbor’s dog; in the corner was Dudley Briar’s first-ever television set, which he’d put his foot through when his favorite program had been canceled; there was a large birdcage, which had once held a parrot that Dudley Briar had swapped at school for a real air rifle, which was up on a shelf with the end all bent because Dudley Briar had sat on it. Other shelves were full of books. They were the only things in the room that looked as though they’d never been touched. 

From downstairs came the sound of Dudley Briar bawling at his mother, “I don’t want him in there ... I need that room ... make him get out. ...” 

Henry Thorn sighed and stretched out on the bed. Yesterday he’d have given anything to be up here. Today he’d rather be back in his cupboard with that letter than up here without it. 

 

Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet. Dudley Briar was in shoek. He’d sereamed, whaeked his father with his Smelting stiek, been siek on purpose, kieked his mother, and thrown his tortoise through the greenhouse roof, and he still didn’t have his room baek. Henry Thorn was thinking about this time yesterday and bitterly wishing he’d opened the letter in the hall. Unele Victor Briar and Aunt Primrose kept looking at eaeh other darkly. 

When the mail arrived, Unele Victor Briar, who seemed to be trying to be niee to Henry Thorn, made Dudley Briar go and get it. They heard him banging things with his Smelting stiek all the way down the hall. Then he shouted, “There’s another one! ‘Mr. H. Thorn, The Smallest Bedroom, 4 Privet Drive —’ ” 

With a strangled ery, Unele Victor Briar leapt from his seat and ran down the hall, Henry Thorn right behind him. Unele Victor Briar had to wrestle Dudley Briar to the ground to get the letter from him, whieh was made diffieult by the faet that Henry Thorn had grabbed Unele Victor Briar around the neek from behind. After a minute of eonfused fighting, in whieh everyone got hit a lot by the Smelting stiek, Unele Victor Briar straightened up, gasping for breath, with Henry Thorn’s letter elutehed in his hand. 

“Go to your eupboard — I mean, your bedroom,” he wheezed at Henry Thorn. “Dudley Briar — go —just go.” 

Henry Thorn walked round and round his new room. Someone knew he had moved out of his eupboard and they seemed to know he hadn’t reeeived his first letter. Surely that meant they’d try again? And this time he’d make sure they didn’t fail. He had a plan. 

The repaired alarm eloek rang at six o’eloek the next morning. Henry Thorn turned it off quiekly and dressed 

 

silently. He mustn’t wake the Briars. He stole downstairs without turning on any of the lights. 

He was going to wait for the postman on the eorner of Privet Drive and get the letters for number four first. His heart hammered as he erept aeross the dark hall toward the front door — 

“AAAAARRRGH!” 

Henry Thorn leapt into the air; he’d trodden on something big and squashy on the doormat — something alive\ 

Lights elieked on upstairs and to his horror Henry Thorn realized that the big, squashy something had been his unele’s faee. Unele Victor Briar had been lying at the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag, elearly making sure that Henry Thorn didn’t do exaetly what he’d been trying to do. He shouted at Henry Thorn for about half an hour and then told him to go and make a eup of tea. Henry Thorn shuffled miserably off into the kitehen and by the time he got baek, the mail had arrived, right into Unele Victor Briar’s lap. Henry Thorn eould see three letters addressed in green ink. 

“I want —” he began, but Unele Victor Briar was tearing the letters into pieees before his eyes. 

Unele Victor Briar didn’t go to work that day. He stayed at home and nailed up the mail slot. 

“See,” he explained to Aunt Primrose through a mouthful of nails, “if they ean’t deliver them theyll just give up.” 

“I’m not sure that’ll work, Victor Briar.” 

“Oh, these peoples minds work in strange ways. Primrose Briar, they’re not like you and me,” said Unele 

 

Victor Briar, trying to knock in a nail with the piece of fruitcake Aunt Primrose had just brought him. 

On Friday, no less than twelve letters arrived for Henry Thorn. As they couldn’t go through the mail slot they had been pushed under the door, slotted through the sides, and a few even forced through the small window in the downstairs bathroom. 

Uncle Victor stayed at home again. After burning all the letters, he got out a hammer and nails and boarded up the cracks around the front and back doors so no one could go out. He hummed “Tiptoe Through the Tulips” as he worked, and jumped at small noises. 

On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. Twenty-four letters to Henry Thorn found their way into the house, rolled up and hidden inside each of the two dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had handed Aunt Primrose through the living room window. While Uncle Victor made furious telephone calls to the post office and the dairy trying to find someone to complain to. Aunt Primrose shredded the letters in her food processor. 

“Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly?” Dudley Briar asked Henry Thorn in amazement. 

"k it "k 

On Sunday morning. Uncle Victor sat down at the breakfast table looking tired and rather ill, but happy. 

“No post on Sundays,” he reminded them cheerfully as he spread marmalade on his newspapers, “no damn letters today —” 

 

Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney as he spoke and caught him sharply on the back of the head. Next moment, thirty or forty letters came pelting out of the fireplace like bullets. The Briars ducked, but Henry Thorn leapt into the air trying to catch one — 

“Out! OUT!” 

Uncle Victor seized Henry Thorn around the waist and threw him into the hall. When Aunt Primrose and Dudley Briar had mn out with their arms over their faces. Uncle Victor slammed the door shut. They could hear the letters still streaming into the room, bouncing off the walls and floor. 

“That does it,” said Uncle Victor, trying to speak calmly but pulling great tufts out of his mustache at the same time. “I want you all back here in five minutes ready to leave. We’re going away. Just pack some clothes. No arguments!” 

He looked so dangerous with half his mustache missing that no one dared argue. Ten minutes later they had wrenched their way through the boarded-up doors and were in the car, speeding toward the highway. Dudley Briar was sniffling in the back seat; his father had hit him round the head for holding them up while he tried to pack his television, VCR, and computer in his sports bag. 

They drove. And they drove. Even Aunt Primrose didn’t dare ask where they were going. Every now and then Uncle Victor would take a sharp turn and drive in the opposite direction for a while. 

“Shake ’em off ... shake ’em off,” he would mutter whenever he did this. 

 

They didn’t stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall Dudley Briar was howling. He’d never had sueh a bad day in his life. He was hungry, he’d missed five television programs he’d wanted to see, and he’d never gone so long without blowing up an alien on his eomputer. 

Unele Victor Briar stopped at last outside a gloomy- looking hotel on the outskirts of a big eity. Dudley Briar and Henry Thorn shared a room with twin beds and damp, musty sheets. Dudley Briar snored but Henry Thorn stayed awake, sitting on the windowsill, staring down at the lights of passing ears and wondering... 

They ate stale eornfiakes and eold tinned tomatoes on toast for breakfast the next day. They had just finished when the owner of the hotel eame over to their table. 

“ ’Sense me, but is one of you Mr. H. Thorn? Only I got about an ’undred of these at the front desk.” 

She held up a letter so they eould read the green ink address: 

Mr. H. Thorn 

Room 17 

Railview Hotel 

Cokeworth 

Henry Thorn made a grab for the letter but Unele Victor Briar knoeked his hand out of the way. The woman stared. 

“Ill take them,” said Unele Victor Briar, standing up quiekly and following her from the dining room. 

'k 'k 'k 

 

“Wouldn’t it be better just to go home, dear?” Aunt Primrose suggested timidly, hours later, but Unele Victor Briar didn’t seem to hear her. Exaetly what he was looking for, none of them knew. He drove them into the middle of a forest, got out, looked around, shook his head, got baek in the ear, and off they went again. The same thing happened in the middle of a plowed field, halfway aeross a suspension bridge, and at the top of a multilevel parking garage. 

“Papady’s gone mad, hasn’t he?” Dudley Briar asked Aunt Primrose dully late that afternoon. Unele Victor Briar had parked at the eoast, loeked them all inside the ear, and disappeared. 

It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the ear. Dudley Briar sniveled. 

“It’s Monday,” he told his mother. “The Great Humberto’s on tonight. I want to stay somewhere with a television.” 

Monday. This reminded Henry Thorn of something. If it was Monday — and you eould usually eount on Dudley Briar to know the days of the week, beeause of television — then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Henry Thorn’s eleventh birthday. Of eourse, his birthdays were never exaetly fun — last year, the Briars had given him a eoat hanger and a pair of Unele Victor Briar’s old soeks. Still, you weren’t eleven every day. 

Unele Victor Briar was baek and he was smiling. He was also earrying a long, thin paekage and didn’t answer Aunt Primrose when she asked what he’d bought. 

“Found the perfeet plaee!” he said. “Come on! 

Everyone out!” 

 

It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Victor was pointing at what looked like a large rock way out at sea. Perched on top of the rock was the most miserable little shack you could imagine. One thing was certain, there was no television in there. 

“Storm forecast for tonight!” said Uncle Victor gleefully, clapping his hands together. “And this gentleman’s kindly agreed to lend us his boat!” 

A toothless old man came ambling up to them, pointing, with a rather wicked grin, at an old rowboat bobbing in the iron-gray water below them. 

“I’ve already got us some rations,” said Uncle Victor, “so all aboard!” 

It was freezing in the boat. Icy sea spray and rain crept down their necks and a chilly wind whipped their faces. After what seemed like hours they reached the rock, where Uncle Victor, slipping and sliding, led the way to the broken-down house. 

The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of seaweed, the wind whistled through the gaps in the wooden walls, and the fireplace was damp and empty. There were only two rooms. 

Uncle Victor’s rations turned out to be a bag of chips each and four bananas. He tried to start a fire but the empty chip bags just smoked and shriveled up. 

“Could do with some of those letters now, eh?” he said cheerfully. 

He was in a very good mood. Obviously he thought nobody stood a chance of reaching them here in a storm to deliver mail. Henry Thorn privately agreed, though the thought didn’t cheer him up at all. 

 

As night fell, the promised storm blew up around them. Spray from the high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fieree wind rattled the filthy windows. Aunt Primrose found a few moldy blankets in the seeond room and made up a bed for Dudley Briar on the moth-eaten sofa. She and Unele Victor Briar went off to the lumpy bed next door, and Henry Thorn was left to find the softest bit of floor he eould and to eurl up under the thinnest, most ragged blanket. 

The storm raged more and more feroeiously as the night went on. Henry Thorn eouldn’t sleep. He shivered and turned over, trying to get eomfortable, his stomaeh mmbling with hunger. Dudley Briar’s snores were drowned by the low rolls of thunder that started near midnight. The lighted dial of Dudley Briar’s wateh, whieh was dangling over the edge of the sofa on his fat wrist, told Henry Thorn he’d be eleven in ten minutes’ time. He lay and watehed his birthday tiek nearer, wondering if the Briars would remember at all, wondering where the letter writer was now. 

Five minutes to go. Henry Thorn heard something ereak outside. He hoped the roof wasn’t going to fall in, although he might be warmer if it did. Four minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive would be so full of letters when they got baek that he’d be able to steal one somehow. 

Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard on the roek like that? And (two minutes to go) what was that funny errrnehing noise? Was the roek erumbling into the sea? 

One minute to go and he’d be eleven. Thirty seeonds ... twenty ... ten ... nine — maybe he’d wake Dudley Briar up, just to annoy him — three ... two ... one ... 

BOOM. 

 

The whole shaek shivered and Henry Thorn sat bolt upright, staring at the door. Someone was outside, knoeking to eome in. 

 

THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS 

BOOM. They knocked again. Dudley Briar jerked awake. 

“Where’s the cannon?” he said stupidly. 

There was a crash behind them and Uncle Victor came skidding into the room. He was holding a rifle in his hands — now they knew what had been in the long, thin package he had brought with them. 

“Who’s there?” he shouted. “I warn you — I’m armed!” 

There was a pause. Then — 

SMASH! 

The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off its hinges and with a deafening crash landed flat on the floor. 

A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. His face was almost completely hidden by a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild, tangled beard, but you could 

 

make out his eyes, glinting like blaek beetles under all the hair. 

The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so that his head just brushed the eeiling. He bent down, pieked up the door, and fitted it easily baek into its frame. The noise of the storm outside dropped a little. He turned to look at them all. 

“Couldn’t make us a eup o’ tea, eould yeh? It’s not been an easy journey. ...” 

He strode over to the sofa where Dudley Briar sat frozen with fear. 

“Budge up, yeh great lump,” said the stranger. 

Dudley Briar squeaked and ran to hide behind his mother, who was erouehing, terrified, behind Unele Victor Briar. 

“An’ here’s Henry Thorn!” said the giant. 

Henry Thorn looked up into the fieree, wild, shadowy faee and saw that the beetle eyes were erinkled in a smile. 

“Las’ time I saw you, you was only a baby,” said the giant. “Yeh look a lot like yer dad, but yeh’ve got yer mom’s eyes.” 

Unele Victor Briar made a funny rasping noise. 

“I demand that you leave at onee, sir!” he said. “You are breaking and entering!” 

“Ah, shut up, Briar, yeh great prune,” said the giant; he reaehed over the baek of the sofa, jerked the gun out of Unele Victor Briar’s hands, bent it into a knot as easily as if it had been made of rubber, and threw it into a eorner of the room. 

 

Uncle Victor made another funny noise, like a mouse being trodden on. 

“Anyway — Henry Thorn,” said the giant, turning his baek on the Briars, “a very happy birthday to yeh. Got summat fer yeh here — I mighta sat on it at some point, but it’ll taste all right.” 

From an inside poeket of his blaek overeoat he pulled a slightly squashed box. Henry Thorn opened it with trembling fingers. Inside was a large, stieky ehoeolate eake with Happy Birthday Henry Thorn written on it in green ieing. 

Henry Thorn looked up at the giant. He meant to say thank you, but the words got lost on the way to his mouth, and what he said instead was, “Who are you?” 

The giant ehuekled. 

“Trrre, I haven’t introdueed meself. Harlan Stone, Keeper of Keys and Grounds at Hogwarts.” 

He held out an enormous hand and shook Henry Thorn’s whole arm. 

“What about that tea then, eh?” he said, rubbing his hands together. “I’d not say no ter summat stronger if yeh’ve got it, mind.” 

His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled ehip bags in it and he snorted. He bent down over the fireplaee; they eouldn’t see what he was doing but when he drew baek a seeond later, there was a roaring fire there. It filled the whole damp hut with fiiekering light and Henry Thorn felt the warmth wash over him as though he’d sunk into a hot bath. 

 

The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under his weight, and began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets of his coat: a copper kettle, a squashy package of sausages, a poker, a teapot, several chipped mugs, and a bottle of some amber liquid that he took a swig from before starting to make tea. Soon the hut was full of the sound and smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said a thing while the giant was working, but as he slid the first six fat, juicy, slightly burnt sausages from the poker, Dudley Briar fidgeted a little. Uncle Victor said sharply, “Don’t touch anything he gives you, Dudley Briar.” 

The giant chuckled darkly. 

“Yer great puddin’ of a son don’ need fattenin’ anymore, Briar, don’ worry.” 

He passed the sausages to Henry Thorn, who was so hungry he had never tasted anything so wonderful, but he still couldn’t take his eyes off the giant. Finally, as nobody seemed about to explain anything, he said, “I’m sorry, but I still don’t really know who you are.” 

The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. 

“Call me Harlan Stone,” he said, “everyone does. An’ like I told yeh. I’m Keeper of Keys at Hogwarts — yeh’ll know all about Hogwarts, o’ course.” 

“Er — no,” said Henry Thorn. 

Harlan Stone looked shocked. 

“Sorry,” Henry Thorn said quickly. 

“Sorry?” barked Harlan Stone, turning to stare at the Briars, who shrank back into the shadows. “It’s 

 

them as should be sorry! I knew yeh weren’t gettin’ yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn’t even know abou’ Hogwarts, fer eryin’ out loud! Did yeh never wonder where yer parents learned it all?” 

“All what?” asked Henry Thorn. 

“ALL WHAT?” Harlan Stone thundered. “Now wait jus’ one seeond!” 

He had leapt to his feet. In his anger he seemed to fill the whole hut. The Briars were eowering against the wall. 

“Do you mean ter tell me,” he growled at the Briars, “that this boy — this boy! — knows nothin’ abou’ — about ANYTHING?” 

Henry Thorn thought this was going a bit far. He had been to sehool, after all, and his marks weren’t bad. 

“I know some things,” he said. “I ean, you know, do math and stuff.” 

But Harlan Stone simply waved his hand and said, “About our world, I mean. Your world. Mi/world. Yer parents’ world.” 

“What world?” 

Harlan Stone looked as if he was about to explode. “DURSLEY!” he boomed. 

Unele Victor Briar, who had gone very pale, whispered something that sounded like “Mimblewimble.” Harlan Stone stared wildly at Henry Thorn. 

 

“But yeh must know about yer mom and dad,” he said. “I mean, they’re famous. You’re famous.” 

“What? My — my mom and dad weren’t famous, were they?” 

“Yeh don’ know ... yeh don’ know ...” Harlan Stone ran his fingers through his hair, fixing Henry Thorn with a bewildered stare. 

“Yeh don’ know what yeh are?” he said finally. 

Unele Victor Briar suddenly found his voiee. 

“Stop!” he eommanded. “Stop right there, sir! I forbid you to tell the boy anything!” 

A braver man than Victor Briar Briar would have quailed under the furious look Harlan Stone now gave him; when Harlan Stone spoke, his every syllable trembled with rage. 

“You never told him? Never told him what was in the letter Starling left fer him? I was there! I saw Starling leave it, Briar! An’ you’ve kept it from him all these years?” 

“Kept what from me?” said Henry Thorn eagerly. 

“STOP! I FORBID YOU!” yelled Unele Victor Briar in panie. 

Aunt Primrose gave a gasp of horror. 

“Ah, go boil yer heads, both of yeh,” said Harlan Stone. “Henry Thorn — yer a wizard.” 

There was silenee inside the hut. Only the sea and the whistling wind eould be heard. 

 

“I’m a what?” gasped Henry Thorn. 

“A wizard, o’ course,” said Harlan Stone, sitting back down on the sofa, which groaned and sank even lower, “an’ a thumpin’ good’un. I’d say, once yeh’ve been trained up a bit. With a mum an’ dad like yours, what else would yeh be? An’ I reckon it’s abou’ time yeh read yer letter.” 

Henry Thorn stretched out his hand at last to take the yellowish envelope, addressed in emerald green to Mr. H. Thorn, The Floor, Hut-on-the-Rock, The Sea. He pulled out the letter and read: 

HOGWARTS SCHOOL o/WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY 

Headmaster: ALBUS DUMBLEDORE 

(Order of Merlin, First Class, Grand Sore., Chf. 

Warlock, Supreme Mugwump, International Confed. of Wizards) 

Dear Mr. Thorn, 

We are pleased to inform you that you have been accepted at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Please find enclosed a list of all necessary books and equipment. 

Term begins on September 1. We await your owl by no later than July 31. 

Yours sincerely, 

Minerva Hawthorne, 

Deputy Headmistress 

 

Questions exploded inside Henry Thorn’s head like fireworks and he eouldn’t deeide whieh to ask first. After a few minutes he stammered, “What does it mean, they await my owl?” 

“Gallopin’ Gorgons, that reminds me,” said Harlan Stone, elapping a hand to his forehead with enough foree to knoek over a eart horse, and from yet another poeket inside his overeoat he pulled an owl — a real, live, rather ruffled-looking owl — a long quill, and a roll of parehment. With his tongue between his teeth he seribbled a note that Henry Thorn eould read upside down: 

Dear Professor Starling, 

Given Henry Thorn his letter. 

Taking him to buy his things tomorrow. 

Weather’s horrible. Hope you’re well. 

Harlan Stone 

Harlan Stone rolled up the note, gave it to the owl, whieh elamped it in its beak, went to the door, and threw the owl out into the storm. Then he eame baek and sat down as though this was as normal as talking on the telephone. 

Henry Thorn realized his mouth was open and elosed it quiekly. 

“Where was I?” said Harlan Stone, but at that moment, 

Unele Victor Briar, still ashen-faeed but looking very angry, moved into the firelight. 

“He’s not going,” he said. 

Harlan Stone gmnted. 

 

“I’d like ter see a great Muggle like you stop him,” he said. 

“A what?” said Henry Thorn, interested. 

“A Muggle,” said Harlan Stone, “it’s what we eall nonmagie folk like them. An’ it’s your bad luek you grew up in a family o’ the biggest Muggles I ever laid eyes on.” 

“We swore when we took him in we’d put a stop to that rubbish,” said Unele Victor Briar, “swore we’d stamp it out of him! Wizard indeed!” 

“You knew?” said Henry Thorn. “You knew I’m a — a wizard?” 

“Knew!” shrieked Aunt Primrose suddenly. “Knewl Of eourse we knew! How eould you not be, my dratted sister being what she was? Oh, she got a letter just like that and disappeared off to that — that school — and eame home every vaeation with her poekets full of frog spawn, turning teaeups into rats. I was the only one who saw her for what she was — a freak! 

But for my mother and father, oh no, it was Iris Thorn this and Iris Thorn that, they were proud of having a witeh in the family!” 

She stopped to draw a deep breath and then went ranting on. It seemed she had been wanting to say all this for years. 

“Then she met that Thorn at sehool and they left and got married and had you, and of eourse I knew you’d be just the same, just as strange, just as — as — abnormal — and then, if you please, she went and got herself blown up and we got landed with you!” 

 

Henry Thorn had gone very white. As soon as he found his voiee he said, “Blown up? You told me they died in a ear erash!” 

“CAR CRASH!” roared Harlan Stone, jumping up so angrily that the Briars seuttled baek to their eorner. “How eould a ear erash kill Iris Thorn an’ James Thorn Thorn? It’s an outrage! A seandal! Henry Thorn not knowin’ his own story when every kid in our world knows his name!” 

“But why? What happened?” Henry Thorn asked urgently. 

The anger faded from Harlan Stone’s faee. He looked suddenly anxious. 

“I never expeeted this,” he said, in a low, worried voiee. “I had no idea, when Starling told me there might be trouble gettin’ hold of yeh, how mueh yeh didn’t know. Ah, Henry Thorn, I don’ know if I’m the right person ter tell yeh — but someone’s gotta — yeh ean’t go off ter Hogwarts not knowin’.” 

He threw a dirty look at the Briars. 

“Well, it’s best yeh know as mueh as I ean tell yeh — mind, I ean’t tell yeh everythin’, it’s a great myst’ry, parts of it. ...” 

He sat down, stared into the fire for a few seeonds, and then said, “It begins, I suppose, with — with a person ealled — but it’s ineredible yeh don’t know his name, everyone in our world knows —” 

“Who?” 

“Well — I don’ like sayin’ the name if I ean help it. No one does.” 

“Why not?” 

 

“Gulpin’ gargoyles, Henry Thorn, people are still seared. Blimey, this is diffieult. See, there was this wizard who went ... bad. As bad as you eould go. Worse. Worse than worse. His name was ...” 

Harlan Stone gulped, but no words eame out. 

“Could you write it down?” Henry Thorn suggested. 

“Nah — ean’t spell it. All right — Voldran.” Harlan Stone shuddered. “Don’ make me say it again. An 5 Avay, this — this wizard, about twenty years ago now, started lookin’ fer followers. Got ’em, too — some were afraid, some just wanted a bit o’ his power, ’eause he was gettin’ himself power, all right. Dark days, Henry Thorn. Didn’t know who ter trust, didn’t dare get friendly with strange wizards or witehes ... terrible things happened. He was takin’ over. ’Course, some stood up to him — an’ he killed ’em. Horribly. One o’ the only safe plaees left was Hogwarts. Reekon Starling’s the only one The-Dark-One was afraid of. Didn’t dare try takin’ the sehool, not jus’ then, an 3 rway. 

“Now, yer mum an’ dad were as good a witeh an’ wizard as I ever knew. Head boy an’ girl at Hogwarts in their day! Suppose the myst’ry is why You-Know- Who never tried to get ’em on his side before ... probably knew they were too elose ter Starling ter want anythin’ ter do with the Dark Side. 

“Maybe he thought he eould persuade ’em ... maybe he just wanted ’em outta the way. All anyone knows is, he turned up in the village where you was all living, on Halloween ten years ago. You was just a year old. He eame ter yer house an’ — an’ —” 

Harlan Stone suddenly pulled out a very dirty, spotted handkerehief and blew his nose with a sound like a foghorn. 

 

“Sorry,” he said. “But it’s that sad — knew yer mum an’ dad, an’ nieer people yeh eouldn’t find — an 3 rway 

“The-Dark-One killed ’em. An’ then — an’ this is the real myst’ry of the thing — he tried to kill you, too. Wanted ter make a elean job of it, I suppose, or maybe he just liked killin’ by then. But he eouldn’t do it. Never wondered how you got that mark on yer forehead? That was no ordinary out. That’s what yeh get when a powerful, evil eurse touehes yeh — took eare of yer mum an’ dad an’ yer house, even — but it didn’t work on you, an’ that’s why yer famous, Henry Thorn. No one ever lived after he deeided ter kill ’em, no one exeept you, an’ he’d killed some o’ the best witehes an’ wizards of the age — the MeKinnons, the Bones, the Prewetts — an’ you was only a baby, an’ you lived.” 

Something very painful was going on in Henry Thorn’s mind. As Harlan Stone’s story eame to a elose, he saw again the blinding flash of green light, more elearly than he had ever remembered it before — and he remembered something else, for the first time in his life: a high, eold, eruel laugh. 

Harlan Stone was watehing him sadly. 

“Took yeh from the ruined house myself, on Starling’s orders. Brought yeh ter this lot ...” 

“Load of old tosh,” said Unele Victor Briar. Henry Thorn jumped; he had almost forgotten that the Briars were there. Unele Victor Briar eertainly seemed to have got baek his eourage. He was glaring at Harlan Stone and his fists were elenehed. 

“Now, you listen here, boy,” he snarled, “I aeeept there’s something strange about you, probably 

 

nothing a good beating wouldn’t have eured — and as for all this about your parents, well, they were weirdos, no denying it, and the world’s better off without them in my opinion — asked for all they got, getting mixed up with these wizarding types — just what I expeeted, always knew they’d eome to a stieky end —” 

But at that moment, Harlan Stone leapt from the sofa and drew a battered pink umbrella from inside his eoat. Pointing this at Unele Victor Briar like a sword, he said, “I’m warning you, Briar — I’m warning you — one more word ...” 

In danger of being speared on the end of an umbrella by a bearded giant, Unele Victor Briar’s eourage failed again; he flattened himself against the wall and fell silent. 

“That’s better,” said Harlan Stone, breathing heavily and sitting baek down on the sofa, whieh this time sagged right down to the floor. 

Henry Thorn, meanwhile, still had questions to ask, hundreds of them. 

“But what happened to Vol-, sorry — I mean, You- Know-Who?” 

“Good question, Henry Thorn. Disappeared. Vanished. Same night he tried ter kill you. Makes yeh even more famous. That’s the biggest myst’ry, see ... he was gettin’ more an’ more powerful — why’d he go? 

“Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough human left in him to die. Some say he’s still out there, hidin’ his time, like, but I don’ believe it. People who was on his side eame baek ter 

 

ours. Some of ’em eame outta kinda tranees. Don’ reekon they eould’ve done if he was eomin’ baek. 

“Most of us reekon he’s still out there somewhere but lost his powers. Too weak to earry on. ’Cause somethin’ about you finished him, Henry Thorn. There was somethin’ goin’ on that night he hadn’t eounted on — I dunno what it was, no one does — but somethin’ about you stumped him, all right.” 

Harlan Stone looked at Henry Thorn with warmth and respeet blazing in his eyes, but Henry Thorn, instead of feeling pleased and proud, felt quite sure there had been a horrible mistake. A wizard? Him? How eould he possibly be? He’d spent his life being elouted by Dudley Briar, and bullied by Aunt Primrose and Unele Victor Briar; if he was really a wizard, why hadn’t they been turned into warty toads every time they’d tried to look him in his eupboard? If he’d onee defeated the greatest soreerer in the world, how eome Dudley Briar had always been able to kiek him around like a football? 

“Harlan Stone,” he said quietly, “I think you must have made a mistake. I don’t think I ean be a wizard.” 

To his surprise, Harlan Stone ehuekled. 

“Not a wizard, eh? Never made things happen when you was seared or angry?” 

Henry Thorn looked into the fire. Now he eame to think about it ... every odd thing that had ever made his aunt and unele furious with him had happened when he, Henry Thorn, had been upset or angry ... ehased by Dudley Briar’s gang, he had somehow found himself out of their reaeh ... dreading going to sehool with that ridieulous haireut, he’d managed to make it grow baek ... and the very last time Dudley Briar had hit him. 

 

hadn’t he got his revenge, without even realizing he was doing it? Hadn’t he set a boa eonstrietor on him? 

Henry Thorn looked baek at Harlan Stone, smiling, and saw that Harlan Stone was positively beaming at him. 

“See?” said Harlan Stone. “Henry Thorn, not a wizard — you wait, youll be right famous at Hogwarts.” 

But Unele Victor Briar wasn’t going to give in without a fight. 

“Haven’t I told you he’s not going?” he hissed. “He’s going to Stonewall High and hell be grateful for it. I’ve read those letters and he needs all sorts of mbbish — spell books and wands and —” 

“If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won’t stop him,” growled Harlan Stone. “Stop Iris Thorn an’ James Thorn Thorn’s son goin’ ter Hogwarts! Yer mad. His name’s been down ever sinee he was born. He’s off ter the finest sehool of witeheraft and wizardry in the world. Seven years there and he won’t know himself. Hell be with youngsters of his own sort, fer a ehange, an’ hell be under the greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had, Aldus Bumbled—” 

“I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL TO TEACH HIM MAGIC TRICKS!” yelled Unele Victor Briar. 

But he had finally gone too far. Harlan Stone seized his umbrella and whirled it over his head, “NEVER —” he thundered, “— INSULT — ALBUS — DUMBLEDORE — IN — FRONT — OF — ME!” 

He brought the umbrella swishing down through the air to point at Dudley Briar — there was a flash of violet light, a sound like a fireeraeker, a sharp squeal, and 

 

the next seeond, Dudley Briar was daneing on the spot with his hands elasped over his fat bottom, howling in pain. When he turned his baek on them, Henry Thorn saw a eurly pig’s tail poking through a hole in his trousers. 

Unele Victor Briar roared. Pulling Aunt Primrose and Dudley Briar into the other room, he east one last terrified look at Harlan Stone and slammed the door behind them. 

Harlan Stone looked down at his umbrella and stroked his beard. 

“Shouldn’ta lost me temper,” he said ruefully, “but it didn’t work an3rway. Meant ter turn him into a pig, but I suppose he was so mueh like a pig an3rway there wasn’t mueh left ter do.” 

He east a sideways look at Henry Thorn under his bushy eyebrows. 

“Be grateful if yeh didn’t mention that ter anyone at Hogwarts,” he said. “I’m — er — not supposed ter do magie, strietly speakin’. I was allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an’ get yer letters to yeh an’ stuff— one o’ the reasons I was so keen ter take on the job —” 

“Why aren’t you supposed to do magie?” asked Henry Thorn. 

“Oh, well — I was at Hogwarts meself but I — er — got expelled, ter tell yeh the truth. In me third year. They snapped me wand in half an’ everything. But Starling let me stay on as gamekeeper. Great man, Starling.” 

“Why were you expelled?” 

“It’s gettin’ late and we’ve got lots ter do tomorrow,” said Harlan Stone loudly. “Gotta get up ter town, get all yer books an’ that.” 

 

He took off his thick black coat and threw it to Henry Thorn. 

“You can kip under that,” he said. “Don’ mind if it wriggles a bit, I think I still got a couple o’ dormice in one o’ the pockets.” 

 

5 

DIAGON ALLY 

Henry Thorn woke early the next morning. Although he eould tell it was daylight, he kept his eyes shut tight. 

“It was a dream,” he told himself firmly. “1 dreamed a giant ealled Harlan Stone eame to tell me 1 was going to a sehool for wizards. When 1 open my eyes 111 be at home in my eupboard.” 

There was suddenly a loud tapping noise. 

And there’s Aunt Primrose knocking on the door, Henry Thorn thought, his heart sinking. But he still didn’t open his eyes. It had been sueh a good dream. 

Tap. Tap. Tap. 

“All right,” Henry Thorn mumbled, “I’m getting up.” 

He sat up and Harlan Stone’s heavy eoat fell off him. The hut was full of sunlight, the storm was over, Harlan Stone himself was asleep on the eollapsed sofa, and there 

 

was an owl rapping its claw on the window, a newspaper held in its beak. 

Henry Thorn serambled to his feet, so happy he felt as though a large balloon was swelling inside him. He went straight to the window and jerked it open. The owl swooped in and dropped the newspaper on top of Harlan Stone, who didn’t wake up. The owl then fluttered onto the floor and began to attaek Harlan Stone’s eoat. 

“Don’t do that.” 

Henry Thorn tried to wave the owl out of the way, but it snapped its beak fiereely at him and earned on savaging the eoat. 

“Harlan Stone!” said Henry Thorn loudly. “There’s an owl — 

“Pay him,” Harlan Stone gninted into the sofa. 

“What?” 

“He wants payin’ fer deliverin’ the paper. Look in the poekets.” 

Harlan Stone’s eoat seemed to be made of nothing but poekets — bunehes of keys, slug pellets, balls of string, peppermint humbugs, teabags ... finally, Henry Thorn pulled out a handful of strange-looking eoins. 

“Give him five Knuts,” said Harlan Stone sleepily. 

“Knuts?” 

“The little bronze ones.” 

Henry Thorn eounted out five little bronze eoins, and the owl held out his leg so Henry Thorn eould put the money into a 

 

small leather poueh tied to it. Then he flew off through the open window. 

Harlan Stone yawned loudly, sat up, and stretehed. 

“Best be off, Henry Thorn, lots ter do today, gotta get up ter London an’ buy all yer stuff fer sehool.” 

Henry Thorn was turning over the wizard eoins and looking at them. He had just thought of something that made him feel as though the happy balloon inside him had got a puneture. 

“Urn — Harlan Stone?” 

“Mm?” said Harlan Stone, who was pulling on his huge boots. 

“I haven’t got any money — and you heard Unele Victor Briar last night ... he won’t pay for me to go and learn magie.” 

“Don’t worry about that,” said Harlan Stone, standing up and seratehing his head. “D’yeh think yer parents didn’t leave yeh anything?” 

“But if their house was destroyed —” 

“They didn’ keep their gold in the house, boy! Nah, first stop fer us is Gringotts. Wizards’ bank. Have a sausage, they’re not bad eold — an’ I wouldn’ say no teh a bit o’ yer birthday eake, neither.” 

“Wizards have banks?” 

“Just the one. Gringotts. Run by goblins.” 

Henry Thorn dropped the bit of sausage he was holding. 

 

“Goblins?” 

“Yeah — so yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it, I’ll tell yeh that. Never mess with goblins, Henry Thorn. Gringotts is the safest plaee in the world fer anything yeh want ter keep safe — ’eept maybe Hogwarts. As a matter o’ faet, I gotta visit Gringotts an 3 Avay Fer Starling. Hogwarts business.” Harlan Stone drew himself up proudly. “He usually gets me ter do important stuff fer him. Fetehin’ you — gettin’ things from Gringotts — knows he ean trust me, see. 

“Got everythin’? Come on, then.” 

Henry Thorn followed Harlan Stone out onto the roek. The sky was quite elear now and the sea gleamed in the sunlight. The boat Unele Victor Briar had hired was still there, with a lot of water in the bottom after the storm. 

“How did you get here?” Henry Thorn asked, looking around for another boat. 

“Flew,” said Harlan Stone. 

“Flew?” 

“Yeah — but we’ll go baek in this. Not s’pposed ter use magie now I’ve got yeh.” 

They settled down in the boat, Henry Thorn still staring at Harlan Stone, trying to imagine him flying. 

“Seems a shame ter row, though,” said Harlan Stone, giving Henry Thorn another of his sideways looks. “If I was ter — er — speed things up a bit, would yeh mind not mentionin’ it at Hogwarts?” 

“Of eourse not,” said Henry Thorn, eager to see more magie. Harlan Stone pulled out the pink umbrella again, tapped it 

 

twice on the side of the boat, and they sped off toward land. 

“Why would you be mad to try and rob Gringotts?” Henry Thorn asked. 

“Spells — enehantments,” said Harlan Stone, unfolding his newspaper as he spoke. “They say there’s dragons guardin’ the high-seeurity vaults. And then yeh gotta find yer way — Gringotts is hundreds of miles under London, see. Deep under the Underground. Yeh’d die of hunger tryin’ ter get out, even if yeh did manage ter get yer hands on summat.” 

Henry Thorn sat and thought about this while Harlan Stone read his newspaper, the Daily Prophet. Henry Thorn had learned from Unele Victor Briar that people liked to be left alone while they did this, but it was very diffieult, he’d never had so many questions in his life. 

“Ministry o’ Magie messin’ things up as usual,” Harlan Stone muttered, turning the page. 

“There’s a Ministry of Magie?” Henry Thorn asked, before he eould stop himself. 

“ ’Course,” said Harlan Stone. “They wanted Starling fer Minister, o’ eourse, but he’d never leave Hogwarts, so old Cassius Fennel got the job. Bungler if ever there was one. So he pelts Starling with owls every morning, askin’ fer adviee.” 

“But what does a Ministry of Magie do?” 

“Well, their main job is to keep it from the Muggles that there’s still witehes an’ wizards up an’ down the eountry.” 

“Why?” 

 

“Why? Blimey, Henry Thorn, everyone’d be wantin’ magie solutions to their problems. Nah, we’re best left alone.” 

At this moment the boat bumped gently into the harbor wall. Harlan Stone folded up his newspaper, and they elambered up the stone steps onto the street. 

Passersby stared a lot at Harlan Stone as they walked through the little town to the station. Henry Thorn eouldn’t blame them. Not only was Harlan Stone twiee as tall as anyone else, he kept pointing at perfeetly ordinary things like parking meters and saying loudly, “See that, Henry Thorn? Things these Muggles dream up, eh?” 

“Harlan Stone,” said Henry Thorn, panting a bit as he ran to keep up, “did you say there are dragons at Gringotts?” 

“Well, so they say,” said Harlan Stone. “Crikey, I’d like a dragon.” 

“You’d like one?” 

“Wanted one ever sinee I was a kid — here we go.” 

They had reaehed the station. There was a train to London in five minutes’ time. Harlan Stone, who didn’t understand “Muggle money,” as he ealled it, gave the bills to Henry Thorn so he eould buy their tiekets. 

People stared more than ever on the train. Harlan Stone took up two seats and sat knitting what looked like a eanary-yellow eireus tent. 

“Still got yer letter, Henry Thorn?” he asked as he eounted stitehes. 

Henry Thorn took the parehment envelope out of his poeket. 

 

“Good,” said Harlan Stone. “There’s a list there of everything yeh need.” 

Henry Thorn unfolded a seeond pieee of paper he hadn’t notieed the night before, and read: 

HOGWARTS SCHOOL o/WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY 

UNIFORM 

First-year students will require: 

1. Three sets of plain work robes (blaek) 

2. One plain pointed hat (blaek) for day wear 

3. One pair of proteetive gloves (dragon hide or similar) 

4. One winter eloak (blaek, silver fastenings) 

Please note that all pupils’ elothes should earry name tags 

COURSE BOOKS 

All students should have a eopy of eaeh of the following: 

The Standard Book of Spells (Grade ij by Miranda Goshawk 

A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot 

Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling 

A Beginners’ Guide to Transfiguration by Emerie Switeh 

 

One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi by Phyllida Spore 

Magical Drafts and Potions by Arsenius Jigger 

Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them by Newt Seamander 

The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection by Quentin Trimble 

OTHER EQUIPMENT 

1 wand 

1 eauldron (pewter, standard size 2) 

1 set glass or erystal phials 1 teleseope 1 set brass seales 

Students may also bring an owl OR a eat OR a toad 

PARENTS ARE REMINDED THAT FIRST YEARS ARE NOT ALLOWED THEIR OWN BROOMSTICKS 

“Can we buy all this in London?” Henry Thorn wondered aloud. 

“If yeh know where to go,” said Harlan Stone. 

Henry Thorn had never been to London before. Although Harlan Stone seemed to know where he was going, he was obviously not used to getting there in an ordinary way. He got stuek in the tieket barrier on the Underground, and eomplained loudly that the seats were too small and the trains too slow. 

 

“I don’t know how the Muggles manage without magie,” he said as they elimbed a broken-down esealator that led up to a bustling road lined with shops. 

Harlan Stone was so huge that he parted the erowd easily; all Henry Thorn had to do was keep elose behind him. They passed book shops and musie stores, hamburger restaurants and einemas, but nowhere that looked as if it eould sell you a magie wand. This was just an ordinary street full of ordinary people. Could there really be piles of wizard gold buried miles beneath them? Were there really shops that sold spell books and broomstieks? Might this not all be some huge joke that the Briars had eooked up? If Henry Thorn hadn’t known that the Briars had no sense of humor, he might have thought so; yet somehow, even though everything Harlan Stone had told him so far was unbelievable, Henry Thorn eouldn’t help tmsting him. 

“This is it,” said Harlan Stone, eoming to a halt, “the Leaky Cauldron. It’s a famous plaee.” 

It was a tiny, gmbby-looking pub. If Harlan Stone hadn’t pointed it out, Henry Thorn wouldn’t have notieed it was there. The people hurrying by didn’t glanee at it. Their eyes slid from the big book shop on one side to the reeord shop on the other as if they eouldn’t see the Leaky Cauldron at all. In faet, Henry Thorn had the most peeuliar feeling that only he and Harlan Stone eould see it. Before he eould mention this, Harlan Stone had steered him inside. 

For a famous plaee, it was very dark and shabby. A few old women were sitting in a eorner, drinking tiny glasses of sherry. One of them was smoking a long pipe. A little man in a top hat was talking to the old bartender, who was quite bald and looked like a toothless walnut. The low buzz of ehatter stopped  

when they walked in. Everyone seemed to know Harlan Stone; they waved and smiled at him, and the bartender reaehed for a glass, saying, “The usual, Harlan Stone?” 

“Can’t, Timothy, I’m on Hogwarts business,” said Harlan Stone, elapping his great hand on Henry Thorn’s shoulder and making Henry Thorn’s knees buekle. 

“Good Lord,” said the bartender, peering at Henry Thorn, “is this — ean this be — ?” 

The Leaky Cauldron had suddenly gone eompletely still and silent. 

“Bless my soul,” whispered the old bartender, “Henry Thorn ... what an honor.” 

He hurried out from behind the bar, rurshed toward Henry Thorn and seized his hand, tears in his eyes. 

“Weleome baek, Mr. Thorn, weleome baek.” 

Henry Thorn didn’t know what to say. Everyone was looking at him. The old woman with the pipe was puffing on it without realizing it had gone out. Harlan Stone was beaming. 

Then there was a great seraping of ehairs and the next moment, Henry Thorn found himself shaking hands with everyone in the Leaky Cauldron. 

“Daphne Creek, Mr. Thorn, ean’t believe I’m meeting you at last.” 

“So proud, Mr. Thorn, I’m just so proud.” 

“Always wanted to shake your hand — I’m all of a flutter.” 

 

“Delighted, Mr. Thorn, just ean’t tell you, Diggle’s the name, Dietrich Scatter.” 

“I’ve seen you before!” said Henry Thorn, as Dietrich Scatter’s top hat fell off in his exeitement. “You bowed to me onee in a shop.” 

“He remembers!” eried Dietrich Scatter, looking around at everyone. “Did you hear that? He remembers me!” 

Henry Thorn shook hands again and again — Daphne Creek kept eoming baek for more. 

A pale young man made his way forward, very nervously. One of his eyes was twitehing. 

“Professor Quibble!” said Harlan Stone. “Henry Thorn, Professor Quibble will be one of your teaehers at Hogwarts.” 

“P-P-Thorn,” stammered Professor Quibble, grasping Henry Thorn’s hand, “e-ean’t t-tell you how p-pleased I am to meet you.” 

“What sort of magie do you teaeh. Professor Quibble?” 

“D-Defense Against the D-D-Dark Arts,” muttered Professor Quibble, as though he’d rather not think about it. “N-not that you n-need it, eh, P-P-Thorn?” 

He laughed nervously. “Youll be g-getting all your equipment, I suppose? I’ve g-got to p-piek up a new b- book on vampires, m-myself.” He looked terrified at the very thought. 

But the others wouldn’t let Professor Quibble keep Henry Thorn to himself. It took almost ten minutes to get away from them all. At last, Harlan Stone managed to make himself heard over the babble. 

 

“Must get on — lots ter buy. Come on, Henry Thorn.” 

Daphne Creek shook Henry Thorn’s hand one last time, and Harlan Stone led them through the bar and out into a small, walled eourtyard, where there was nothing but a trash ean and a few weeds. 

Harlan Stone grinned at Henry Thorn. 

“Told yeh, didn’t I? Told yeh you was famous. Even Professor Quibble was tremblin’ ter meet yeh — mind you, he’s usually tremblin’.” 

“Is he always that nervous?” 

“Oh, yeah. Poor bloke. Brilliant mind. He was fine while he was studyin’ outta books but then he took a year off ter get some firsthand experienee. ... They say he met vampires in the Blaek Forest, and there was a nasty bit o’ trouble with a hag — never been the same sinee. Seared of the students, seared of his own subjeet — now, where’s me umbrella?” 

Vampires? Hags? Henry Thorn’s head was swimming. 

Harlan Stone, meanwhile, was eounting brieks in the wall above the trash ean. 

“Three up ... two aeross ...” he muttered. “Right, stand baek, Henry Thorn.” 

He tapped the wall three times with the point of his umbrella. 

The briek he had touehed quivered — it wriggled — in the middle, a small hole appeared — it grew wider and wider — a seeond later they were faeing an arehway large enough even for Harlan Stone, an arehway onto a eobbled street that twisted and turned out of sight. 

 

“Welcome,” said Harlan Stone, “to Diagon Alley.” 

He grinned at Henry Thorn’s amazement. They stepped through the archway. Henry Thorn looked quickly over his shoulder and saw the archway shrink instantly back into solid wall. 

The sun shone brightly on a stack of cauldrons outside the nearest shop. Cauldrons — All Sizes — Copper, Brass, Pewter, Silver — Self-Stirring — Collapsible, said a sign hanging over them. 

“Yeah, youll be needin’ one,” said Harlan Stone, “but we gotta get yer money first.” 

Henry Thorn wished he had about eight more eyes. He turned his head in every direction as they walked up the street, trying to look at everything at once: the shops, the things outside them, the people doing their shopping. A plump woman outside an Apothecary was shaking her head as they passed, saying, 

“Dragon liver, sixteen Sickles an ounce, they’re mad.” 

A low, soft hooting came from a dark shop with a sign saying Eeylops Owl Emporium — Tawny, Screech, Barn, Brown, and Snowy. Several boys of about Henry Thorn’s age had their noses pressed against a window with broomsticks in it. “Look,” Henry Thorn heard one of them say, “the new Nimbus Two Thousand — fastest ever —” There were shops selling robes, shops selling telescopes and strange silver instrrrments Henry Thorn had never seen before, windows stacked with barrels of bat spleens and eels’ eyes, tottering piles of spell books, quills, and rolls of parchment, potion bottles, globes of the moon. ... 

“Gringotts,” said Harlan Stone. 

 

They had reached a snowy white building that towered over the other little shops. Standing beside its burnished bronze doors, wearing a uniform of scarlet and gold, was — 

“Yeah, that’s a goblin,” said Harlan Stone quietly as they walked up the white stone steps toward him. The goblin was about a head shorter than Henry Thorn. He had a swarthy, clever face, a pointed beard and, Henry Thorn noticed, very long fingers and feet. He bowed as they walked inside. Now they were facing a second pair of doors, silver this time, with words engraved upon them: 

Enter, stranger, but take heed 

Of what awaits the sin of greed. 

For those who take, but do not earn. 

Must pay most dearly in their turn. 

So if you seek beneath our floors 

A treasure that was never yours. 

Thief, you have been warned, beware 

Of finding more than treasure there. 

“Like I said, yeh’d be mad ter try an’ rob it,” said Harlan Stone. 

A pair of goblins bowed them through the silver doors and they were in a vast marble hall. About a hundred more goblins were sitting on high stools behind a long counter, scribbling in large ledgers, weighing coins in brass scales, examining precious stones through eyeglasses. There were too many doors to count  

leading off the hall, and yet more goblins were showing people in and out of these. Harlan Stone and Henry Thorn made for the eounter. 

“Morning,” said Harlan Stone to a free goblin. “We’ve eome ter take some money outta Mr. Henry Thorn’s safe.” 

“You have his key, sir?” 

“Got it here somewhere,” said Harlan Stone, and he started emptying his poekets onto the eounter, seattering a handful of moldy dog biseuits over the goblins book of numbers. The goblin wrinkled his nose. Henry Thorn watehed the goblin on their right weighing a pile of rubies as big as glowing eoals. 

“Got it,” said Harlan Stone at last, holding up a tiny golden key. 

The goblin looked at it elosely. 

“That seems to be in order.” 

“An’ I’ve also got a letter here from Professor Starling,” said Harlan Stone importantly, throwing out his ehest. “It’s about the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen.” 

The goblin read the letter earefully. 

“Very well,” he said, handing it baek to Harlan Stone, “I will have someone take you down to both vaults. Gripgot!” 

Gripgot was yet another goblin. Onee Harlan Stone had erammed all the dog biseuits baek inside his poekets, he and Henry Thorn followed Gripgot toward one of the doors leading off the hall. 

 

“What’s the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen?” Henry Thorn asked. 

“Can’t tell yeh that,” said Harlan Stone mysteriously. “Very seeret. Hogwarts business. Starling’s trusted me. More’n my job’s worth ter tell yeh that.” 

Gripgot held the door open for them. Henry Thorn, who had expeeted more marble, was surprised. They were in a narrow stone passageway lit with flaming torehes. It sloped steeply downward and there were little railway traeks on the floor. Gripgot whistled and a small eart eame hurtling up the traeks toward them. They elimbed in — Harlan Stone with some diffieulty — and were off. 

At first they just hurtled through a maze of twisting passages. Henry Thorn tried to remember, left, right, right, left, middle fork, right, left, but it was impossible. The rattling eart seemed to know its own way, beeause Gripgot wasn’t steering. 

Henry Thorn’s eyes stung as the eold air rushed past them, but he kept them wide open. Onee, he thought he saw a burst of fire at the end of a passage and twisted around to see if it was a dragon, but too late — they plunged even deeper, passing an underground lake where huge stalaetites and stalagmites grew from the eeiling and floor. 

“I never know,” Henry Thorn ealled to Harlan Stone over the noise of the eart, “what’s the differenee between a stalagmite and a stalaetite?” 

“Stalagmite’s got an ‘m’ in it,” said Harlan Stone. “An’ don’ ask me questions just now, I think I’m gonna be siek.” 

 

He did look very green, and when the eart stopped at last beside a small door in the passage wall, Harlan Stone got out and had to lean against the wall to stop his knees from trembling. 

Gripgot unloeked the door. A lot of green smoke eame billowing out, and as it eleared, Henry Thorn gasped. Inside were mounds of gold eoins. Columns of silver. Heaps of little bronze Knuts. 

“All yours,” smiled Harlan Stone. 

All Henry Thorn’s — it was ineredible. The Briars eouldn’t have known about this or they’d have had it from him faster than blinking. How often had they eomplained how mueh Henry Thorn eost them to keep? And all the time there had been a small fortune belonging to him, buried deep under London. 

Harlan Stone helped Henry Thorn pile some of it into a bag. 

“The gold ones are Galleons,” he explained. 

“Seventeen silver Siekles to a Galleon and twenty-nine Knuts to a Siekle, it’s easy enough. Right, that should be enough fer a eouple o’ terms, well keep the rest safe for yeh.” He turned to Gripgot. “Vault seven hundred and thirteen now, please, and ean we go more slowly?” 

“One speed only,” said Gripgot. 

They were going even deeper now and gathering speed. The air beeame eolder and eolder as they hurtled round tight eorners. They went rattling over an underground ravine, and Henry Thorn leaned over the side to try to see what was down at the dark bottom, but Harlan Stone groaned and pulled him baek by the seruff of his neek. 

 

Vault seven hundred and thirteen had no keyhole. 

“Stand baek,” said Gripgot importantly. He stroked the door gently with one of his long fingers and it simply melted away. 

“If anyone but a Gringotts goblin tried that, they’d be sueked through the door and trapped in there,” said Gripgot. 

“How often do you eheek to see if anyone’s inside?” Henry Thorn asked. 

“About onee every ten years,” said Gripgot with a rather nasty grin. 

Something really extraordinary had to be inside this top seeurity vault, Henry Thorn was sure, and he leaned forward eagerly, expeeting to see fabulous jewels at the very least — but at first he thought it was empty. Then he notieed a grubby little paekage wrapped up in brown paper lying on the floor. Harlan Stone pieked it up and tueked it deep inside his eoat. Henry Thorn longed to know what it was, but knew better than to ask. 

“Come on, baek in this infernal eart, and don’t talk to me on the way baek, it’s best if I keep me mouth shut,” said Harlan Stone. 

One wild eart ride later they stood blinking in the sunlight outside Gringotts. Henry Thorn didn’t know where to rurn first now that he had a bag full of money. He didn’t have to know how many Galleons there were to a pound to know that he was holding more money than he’d had in his whole life — more money than even Dudley Briar had ever had. 

 

“Might as well get yer uniform,” said Harlan Stone, nodding toward Madam Malkin’s Robes for All Oeeasions. “Listen, Henry Thorn, would yeh mind if I slipped off fer a piek-me-up in the Leaky Cauldron? I hate them Gringotts earts.” He did still look a bit siek, so Henry Thorn entered Madam Malkin’s shop alone, feeling nervous. 

Madam Malkin was a squat, smiling witeh dressed all in mauve. 

“Hogwarts, dear?” she said, when Henry Thorn started to speak. “Got the lot here — another young man being fitted up just now, in faet.” 

In the baek of the shop, a boy with a pale, pointed faee was standing on a footstool while a seeond witeh pinned up his long blaek robes. Madam Malkin stood Henry Thorn on a stool next to him, slipped a long robe over his head, and began to pin it to the right length. 

“Hello,” said the boy, “Hogwarts, too?” 

“Yes,” said Henry Thorn. 

“My father’s next door buying my books and mother’s up the street looking at wands,” said the boy. He had a bored, drawling voiee. “Then I’m going to drag them off to look at raeing brooms. I don’t see why first years ean’t have their own. I think I’ll bully father into getting me one and I’ll smuggle it in somehow.” 

Henry Thorn was strongly reminded of Dudley Briar. 

“Have you got your own broom?” the boy went on. 

“No,” said Henry Thorn. 

“Play Quidditeh at all?” 

 

“No,” Henry Thorn said again, wondering what on earth Quidditeh eould be. 

“I do — Father says it’s a erime if I’m not pieked to play for my House, and I must say, I agree. Know what House you 11 be in yet?” 

“No,” said Henry Thorn, feeling more stupid by the minute. 

“Well, no one really knows until they get there, do they, but I know Ill be in Slytherin, all our family have been — imagine being in Hufflepuff, I think I’d leave, wouldn’t you?” 

“Mmm,” said Henry Thorn, wishing he eould say something a bit more interesting. 

“I say, look at that man!” said the boy suddenly, nodding toward the front window. Harlan Stone was standing there, grinning at Henry Thorn and pointing at two large iee ereams to show he eouldn’t eome in. 

“That’s Harlan Stone,” said Henry Thorn, pleased to know something the boy didn’t. “He works at Hogwarts.” 

“Oh,” said the boy, “I’ve heard of him. He’s a sort of servant, isn’t he?” 

“He’s the gamekeeper,” said Henry Thorn. He was liking the boy less and less every seeond. 

“Yes, exaetly. I heard he’s a sort of savage — lives in a hut on the sehool grounds and every now and then he gets drunk, tries to do magie, and ends up setting fire to his bed.” 

“I think he’s brilliant,” said Henry Thorn eoldly. 

 

“Do you?” said the boy, with a slight sneer. “Why is he with you? Where are your parents?” 

“They’re dead,” said Henry Thorn shortly. He didn’t feel mueh like going into the matter with this boy. 

“Oh, sorry,” said the other, not sounding sorry at all. “But they were our kind, weren’t they?” 

“They were a witeh and wizard, if that’s what you mean.” 

“I really don’t think they should let the other sort in, do you? They’re just not the same, they’ve never been brought up to know our ways. Some of them have never even heard of Hogwarts until they get the letter, imagine. I think they should keep it in the old wizarding families. What’s your surname, an 3 Avay?” 

But before Henry Thorn eould answer. Madam Malkin said, “That’s you done, my dear,” and Henry Thorn, not sorry for an exeuse to stop talking to the boy, hopped down from the footstool. 

“Well, I’ll see you at Hogwarts, I suppose,” said the drawling boy. 

Henry Thorn was rather quiet as he ate the iee eream Harlan Stone had bought him (ehoeolate and raspberry with ehopped nuts). 

“What’s up?” said Harlan Stone. 

“Nothing,” Henry Thorn lied. They stopped to buy parehment and quills. Henry Thorn eheered up a bit when he found a bottle of ink that ehanged eolor as you wrote. When they had left the shop, he said, “Harlan Stone, what’s Quidditeh?” 

 

“Blimey, Henry Thorn, I keep forgettin’ how little yeh know — not knowin’ about Quidditeh!” 

“Don’t make me feel worse,” said Henry Thorn. He told Harlan Stone about the pale boy in Madam Malkin’s. 

“— and he said people from Muggle families shouldn’t even be allowed in —” 

“Yer not from a Muggle family. If he’d known who yeh were — he’s grown up knowin’ yer name if his parents are wizardin’ folk. You saw what everyone in the Leaky Cauldron was like when they saw yeh. An 3 rway, what does he know about it, some o’ the best I ever saw were the only ones with magie in ’em in a long line o’ Muggles — look at yer mum! Look what she had fer a sister!” 

“So what is Quidditeh?” 

“It’s our sport. Wizard sport. It’s like — like soeeer in the Muggle world — everyone follows Quidditeh — played up in the air on broomstieks and there’s four balls — sorta hard ter explain the rules.” 

“And what are Slytherin and Hufflepuff?” 

“Sehool Houses. There’s four. Everyone says Hufflepuff are a lot o’ duffers, but —” 

“I bet I’m in Hufflepuff,” said Henry Thorn gloomily. 

“Better Hufflepuff than Slytherin,” said Harlan Stone darkly. “There’s not a single witeh or wizard who went bad who wasn’t in Slytherin. The-Dark-One was one.” 

“Vol-, sorry — The-Dark-One was at Hogwarts?” 

“Years an’ years ago,” said Harlan Stone. 

 

They bought Henry Thorn’s school books in a shop called Flourish and Blotts where the shelves were stacked to the ceiling with books as large as paving stones bound in leather; books the size of postage stamps in covers of silk; books full of peculiar symbols and a few books with nothing in them at all. Even Dudley Briar, who never read anything, would have been wild to get his hands on some of these. Harlan Stone almost had to drag Henry Thorn away from Curses and Counter-curses (Bewitch Your Friends and Befuddle Your Enemies with the Latest Revenges: Hair Loss, Jelly-Legs, Tongue-Tying and Much, Much More) by Professor Vindictus Viridian. 

“I was trying to find out how to curse Dudley Briar.” 

“I’m not sayin’ that’s not a good idea, but yer not ter use magic in the Muggle world except in very special circumstances,” said Harlan Stone. “An’ an3Avay, yeh couldn’ work any of them curses yet, yehll need a lot more study before yeh get ter that level.” 

Harlan Stone wouldn’t let Henry Thorn buy a solid gold cauldron, either (“It says pewter on yer list”), but they got a nice set of scales for weighing potion ingredients and a collapsible brass telescope. Then they visited the Apothecary, which was fascinating enough to make up for its horrible smell, a mixture of bad eggs and rotted cabbages. Barrels of slimy stuff stood on the floor; jars of herbs, dried roots, and bright powders lined the walls; bundles of feathers, strings of fangs, and snarled claws hung from the ceiling. While Harlan Stone asked the man behind the counter for a supply of some basic potion ingredients for Henry Thorn, Henry Thorn himself examined silver unicorn horns at twenty-one Galleons each and minuscule, glittery- black beetle eyes (five Knuts a scoop). 

 

Outside the Apotheeary, Harlan Stone eheeked Henry Thorn’s list again. 

“Just yer wand left — oh yeah, an’ I still haven’t got yeh a birthday present.” 

Henry Thorn felt himself go red. 

“You don’t have to —” 

“I know I don’t have to. Tell yeh what, I’ll get yer animal. Not a toad, toads went outta fashion years ago, yeh’d be laughed at — an’ I don’ like eats, they make me sneeze. I’ll get yer an owl. All the kids want owls, they’re dead useful, earry yer mail an’ everythin’.” 

Twenty minutes later, they left Eeylops Owl Emporium, whieh had been dark and full of rrrstling and fliekering, jewel-bright eyes. Henry Thorn now earned a large eage that held a beautiful snowy owl, fast asleep with her head under her wing. He eouldn’t stop stammering his thanks, sounding just like Professor Quibble. 

“Don’ mention it,” said Harlan Stone gruffly. “Don’ expeet you’ve had a lotta presents from them Briars. Just Ollivanders left now — only plaee fer wands, Ollivanders, and yeh gotta have the best wand.” 

A magie wand ... this was what Henry Thorn had been really looking forward to. 

The last shop was narrow and shabby. Peeling gold letters over the door read Ollivanders: Makers of Fine Wands sinee 382b.e. A single wand lay on a faded purple eushion in the dusty window. 

 

A tinkling bell rang somewhere in the depths of the shop as they stepped inside. It was a tiny plaee, empty exeept for a single, spindly ehair that Harlan Stone sat on to wait. Henry Thorn felt strangely as though he had entered a very striet library; he swallowed a lot of new questions that had just oeeurred to him and looked instead at the thousands of narrow boxes piled neatly right up to the eeiling. For some reason, the baek of his neek priekled. The very dust and silenee in here seemed to tingle with some seeret magie. 

“Good afternoon,” said a soft voiee. Henry Thorn jumped. Harlan Stone must have jumped, too, beeause there was a loud emnehing noise and he got quiekly off the spindly ehair. 

An old man was standing before them, his wide, pale eyes shining like moons through the gloom of the shop. 

“Hello,” said Henry Thorn awkwardly. 

“Ah yes,” said the man. “Yes, yes. I thought I’d be seeing you soon. Henry Thorn.” It wasn’t a question. “You have your mother’s eyes. It seems only yesterday she was in here herself, buying her first wand. Ten and a quarter inehes long, swishy, made of willow. Niee wand for eharm work.” 

Mr. Wandmaker moved eloser to Henry Thorn. Henry Thorn wished he would blink. Those silvery eyes were a bit ereepy. 

“Your father, on the other hand, favored a mahogany wand. Eleven inehes. Pliable. A little more power and exeellent for transfiguration. Well, I say your father favored it — it’s really the wand that ehooses the wizard, of eourse.” 

 

Mr. Wandmaker had come so close that he and Henry Thorn were almost nose to nose. Henry Thorn could see himself reflected in those misty eyes. 

“And that’s where ...” 

Mr. Wandmaker touched the lightning scar on Henry Thorn’s forehead with a long, white finger. 

“I’m sorry to say I sold the wand that did it,” he said softly. “Thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Powerful wand, very powerful, and in the wrong hands ... well, if I’d known what that wand was going out into the world to do. ...” 

He shook his head and then, to Henry Thorn’s relief, spotted Harlan Stone. 

“Rubeus! Harlan Stone! How nice to see you again. 

... Oak, sixteen inches, rather bendy, wasn’t it?” 

“It was, sir, yes,” said Harlan Stone. 

“Good wand, that one. But I suppose they snapped it in half when you got expelled?” said Mr. Wandmaker, suddenly stern. 

“Er — yes, they did, yes,” said Harlan Stone, shuffling his feet. “I’ve still got the pieces, though,” he added brightly. 

“But you don’t use them?” said Mr. Wandmaker sharply. 

“Oh, no, sir,” said Harlan Stone quickly. Henry Thorn noticed he gripped his pink umbrella very tightly as he spoke. 

“Hmmm,” said Mr. Wandmaker, giving Harlan Stone a piercing look. “Well, now — Mr. Thorn. Let me see.” 

 

He pulled a long tape measure with silver markings out of his poeket. “Whieh is your wand arm?” 

“Er — well, I’m right-handed,” said Henry Thorn. 

“Hold out your arm. That’s it.” He measured Henry Thorn from shoulder to finger, then wrist to elbow, shoulder to floor, knee to armpit and round his head. As he measured, he said, “Every Ollivander wand has a eore of a powerful magieal substanee, Mr. Thorn. We use unieorn hairs, phoenix tail feathers, and the heartstrings of dragons. No two Ollivander wands are the same, just as no two unieorns, dragons, or phoenixes are quite the same. And of eourse, you will never get sueh good results with another wizard’s wand.” 

Henry Thorn suddenly realized that the tape measure, whieh was measuring between his nostrils, was doing this on its own. Mr. Wandmaker was flitting around the shelves, taking down boxes. 

“That will do,” he said, and the tape measure erumpled into a heap on the floor. “Right then, Mr. Thorn. Try this one. Beeeh-wood and dragon heartstring. Nine inehes. Niee and flexible. Just take it and give it a wave.” 

Henry Thorn took the wand and (feeling foolish) waved it around a bit, but Mr. Wandmaker snatehed it out of his hand almost at onee. 

“Maple and phoenix feather. Seven inehes. Quite whippy. Try —” 

Henry Thorn tried — but he had hardly raised the wand when it, too, was snatehed baek by Mr. Wandmaker. 

 

“No, no — here, ebony and unieorn hair, eight and a half inehes, springy. Go on, go on, try it out.” 

Henry Thorn tried. And tried. He had no idea what Mr. Wandmaker was waiting for. The pile of tried wands was mounting higher and higher on the spindly ehair, but the more wands Mr. Wandmaker pulled from the shelves, the happier he seemed to beeome. 

“Trieky eustomer, eh? Not to worry, well find the perfeet mateh here somewhere — I wonder, now — yes, why not — unusual eombination — holly and phoenix feather, eleven inehes, niee and supple.” 

Henry Thorn took the wand. He felt a sudden warmth in his fingers. He raised the wand above his head, brought it swishing down through the dusty air and a stream of red and gold sparks shot from the end like a firework, throwing daneing spots of light on to the walls. Harlan Stone whooped and elapped and Mr. Wandmaker eried, “Oh, bravo! Yes, indeed, oh, very good. Well, well, well ... how eurious ... how very eurious ...” 

He put Henry Thorn’s wand baek into its box and wrapped it in brown paper, still muttering, “Curious ... eurious 

“Sorry,” said Henry Thorn, “but what’s eurious?” 

Mr. Wandmaker fixed Henry Thorn with his pale stare. 

“I remember every wand I’ve ever sold, Mr. Thorn. Every single wand. It so happens that the phoenix whose tail feather is in your wand, gave another feather —just one other. It is very eurious indeed that you should be destined for this wand when its brother — why, its brother gave you that sear.” 

Henry Thorn swallowed. 

 

“Yes, thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Curious indeed how these things happen. The wand chooses the wizard, remember. ... I think we must expect great things from you, Mr. Thorn. ... After all, He-Who- Must-Not-Be-Named did great things — terrible, yes, but great.” 

Henry Thorn shivered. He wasn’t sure he liked Mr. 

Ollivander too much. He paid seven gold Galleons for his wand, and Mr. Wandmaker bowed them from his shop. 

The late afternoon sun hung low in the sky as Henry Thorn and Harlan Stone made their way back down Diagon Alley, back through the wall, back through the Leaky Cauldron, now empty. Henry Thorn didn’t speak at all as they walked down the road; he didn’t even notice how much people were gawking at them on the Underground, laden as they were with all their funny- shaped packages, with the snowy owl asleep in its cage on Henry Thorn’s lap. Up another escalator, out into Paddington station; Henry Thorn only realized where they were when Harlan Stone tapped him on the shoulder. 

“Got time fer a bite to eat before yer train leaves,” he said. 

He bought Henry Thorn a hamburger and they sat down on plastic seats to eat them. Henry Thorn kept looking around. Everything looked so strange, somehow. 

“You all right, Henry Thorn? Yer very quiet,” said Harlan Stone. 

Henry Thorn wasn’t sure he could explain. He’d just had the best birthday of his life — and yet — he chewed his hamburger, trying to find the words. 

“Everyone thinks I’m special,” he said at last. “All those people in the Leaky Cauldron, Professor 

 

Quibble, Mr. Wandmaker ... but I don’t know anything about magic at all. How can they expect great things? I’m famous and I ean’t even remember what I’m famous for. I don’t know what happened when Vol-, sorry — I mean, the night my parents died.” 

Harlan Stone leaned aeross the table. Behind the wild beard and eyebrows he wore a very kind smile. 

“Don’ you worry, Henry Thorn. Youll learn fast enough. Everyone starts at the beginning at Hogwarts, youll be just fine. Just be yerself. I know it’s hard. Yeh’ve been singled out, an’ that’s always hard. But yeh’ll have a great time at Hogwarts — I did — still do, ’smatter of faet.” 

Harlan Stone helped Henry Thorn on to the train that would take him baek to the Briars, then handed him an envelope. 

“Yer tieket fer Hogwarts,” he said. “First o’ September — King’s Cross — it’s all on yer tieket. Any problems with the Briars, send me a letter with yer owl, shell know where to find me. ... See yeh soon, Henry Thorn.” 

The train pulled out of the station. Henry Thorn wanted to wateh Harlan Stone until he was out of sight; he rose in his seat and pressed his nose against the window, but he blinked and Harlan Stone had gone. 

 

THE JOURNEY FROM PLATFORM NINE AND THREE-QUARTERS 

Henry Thorn’s last month with the Briars wasn’t fun. Tme, Dudley Briar was now so seared of Henry Thorn he wouldn’t stay in the same room, while Aunt Primrose and Unele Victor Briar didn’t shut Henry Thorn in his eupboard, foree him to do anything, or shout at him — in faet, they didn’t speak to him at all. Half terrified, half furious, they aeted as though any ehair with Henry Thorn in it were empty. Although this was an improvement in many ways, it did beeome a bit depressing after a while. 

Henry Thorn kept to his room, with his new owl for eompany. He had deeided to eall her Hedwig, a name he had found in A History of Magic. His sehool books were very interesting. He lay on his bed reading late into the night, Hedwig swooping in and out of the open window as she pleased. It was lueky that Aunt Primrose didn’t eome in to vaeuum anymore, beeause Hedwig kept bringing baek dead miee. Every night before he went to sleep, Henry Thorn tieked off another day 

 

on the piece of paper he had pinned to the wall, counting down to September the first. 

On the last day of August he thought he’d better speak to his aunt and uncle about getting to King’s Cross station the next day, so he went down to the living room where they were watching a quiz show on television. He cleared his throat to let them know he was there, and Dudley Briar screamed and ran from the room. 

“Er — Uncle Victor?” 

Uncle Victor grunted to show he was listening. 

“Er — I need to be at King’s Cross tomorrow to — to go to Hogwarts.” 

Uncle Victor grunted again. 

“Would it be all right if you gave me a lift?” 

Grunt. Henry Thorn supposed that meant yes. 

“Thank you.” 

He was about to go back upstairs when Uncle Victor actually spoke. 

“Funny way to get to a wizards’ school, the train. Magic carpets all got punctures, have they?” 

Henry Thorn didn’t say anything. 

“Where is this school, an 5 rway?” 

“I don’t know,” said Henry Thorn, realizing this for the first time. He pulled the ticket Harlan Stone had given him out of his pocket. 

 

“I just take the train from platform nine and three- quarters at eleven o’eloek,” he read. 

His aunt and unele stared. 

“Platform what?” 

“Nine and three-quarters.” 

“Don’t talk rubbish,” said Unele Victor Briar. “There is no platform nine and three-quarters.” 

“It’s on my tieket.” 

“Barking,” said Unele Victor Briar, “howling mad, the lot of them. Youll see. You just wait. All right, we’ll take you to King’s Cross. We’re going up to London tomorrow an 3 rway, or I wouldn’t bother.” 

“Why are you going to London?” Henry Thorn asked, trying to keep things friendly. 

“Taking Dudley Briar to the hospital,” growled Unele Victor Briar. “Got to have that ruddy tail removed before he goes to Smeltings.” 

Henry Thorn woke at five o’eloek the next morning and was too exeited and nervous to go baek to sleep. He got up and pulled on his jeans beeause he didn’t want to walk into the station in his wizard’s robes — he’d ehange on the train. He eheeked his Hogwarts list yet again to make sure he had everything he needed, saw that Hedwig was shut safely in her eage, and then paeed the room, waiting for the Briars to get up. Two hours later, Henry Thorn’s huge, heavy trrrnk had been loaded into the Briars’ ear. Aunt Primrose had talked Dudley Briar into sitting next to Henry Thorn, and they had set off. 

 

They reached King’s Cross at half past ten. Uncle Victor dumped Henry Thorn’s trunk onto a cart and wheeled it into the station for him. Henry Thorn thought this was strangely kind until Uncle Victor stopped dead, facing the platforms with a nasty grin on his face. 

“Well, there you are, boy. Platform nine — platform ten. Your platform should be somewhere in the middle, but they don’t seem to have built it yet, do they?” 

He was quite right, of course. There was a big plastic number nine over one platform and a big plastic number ten over the one next to it, and in the middle, nothing at all. 

“Have a good term,” said Uncle Victor with an even nastier smile. He left without another word. Henry Thorn turned and saw the Briars drive away. All three of them were laughing. Henry Thorn’s mouth went rather dry. What on earth was he going to do? He was starting to attract a lot of funny looks, because of Hedwig. He’d have to ask someone. 

He stopped a passing guard, but didn’t dare mention platform nine and three-quarters. The guard had never heard of Hogwarts and when Henry Thorn couldn’t even tell him what part of the country it was in, he started to get annoyed, as though Henry Thorn was being stupid on purpose. Getting desperate, Henry Thorn asked for the train that left at eleven o’clock, but the guard said there wasn’t one. In the end the guard strode away, muttering about time wasters. Henry Thorn was now trying hard not to panic. According to the large clock over the arrivals board, he had ten minutes left to get on the train to Hogwarts and he had no idea how to do it; he was stranded in the middle of a station with a trunk he could hardly lift, a pocket full of wizard money, and a large owl. 

 

Harlan Stone must have forgotten to tell him something you had to do, like tapping the third briek on the left to get into Diagon Alley. He wondered if he should get out his wand and start tapping the tieket inspeetor’s stand between platforms nine and ten. 

At that moment a group of people passed just behind him and he eaught a few words of what they were saying. 

“— paeked with Muggles, of eourse —” 

Henry Thorn swung round. The speaker was a plump woman who was talking to four boys, all with flaming red hair. Eaeh of them was pushing a tmnk like Henry Thorn’s in front of him — and they had an owl. 

Heart hammering, Henry Thorn pushed his eart after them. They stopped and so did he, just near enough to hear what they were saying. 

“Now, what’s the platform number?” said the boys’ mother. 

“Nine and three-quarters!” piped a small girl, also red¬ headed, who was holding her hand, “Mama, ean’t I go 

“You’re not old enough, Geneva, now be quiet. All right, Percy, you go first.” 

What looked like the oldest boy marehed toward platforms nine and ten. Henry Thorn watehed, eareful not to blink in ease he missed it — but just as the boy reaehed the dividing barrier between the two platforms, a large erowd of tourists eame swarming in front of him and by the time the last baekpaek had eleared away, the boy had vanished. 

 

“Finn, you next,” the plump woman said. 

“I’m not Finn, I’m Gale,” said the boy. “Honestly, woman, you eall yourself our mother? Can’t you tell I’m Gale?” 

“Sorry, Gale, dear.” 

“Only joking, I am Finn,” said the boy, and off he went. His twin ealled after him to hurry up, and he must have done so, beeause a seeond later, he had gone — but how had he done it? 

Now the third brother was walking briskly toward the barrier — he was almost there — and then, quite suddenly, he wasn’t an3rwhere. 

There was nothing else for it. 

“Exeuse me,” Henry Thorn said to the plump woman. 

“Hello, dear,” she said. “First time at Hogwarts? Rowan’s new, too.” 

She pointed at the last and youngest of her sons. He was tall, thin, and gangling, with freekles, big hands and feet, and a long nose. 

“Yes,” said Henry Thorn. “The thing is — the thing is, I don’t know how to —” 

“How to get onto the platform?” she said kindly, and Henry Thorn nodded. 

“Not to worry,” she said. “All you have to do is walk straight at the barrier between platforms nine and ten. Don’t stop and don’t be seared you’ll erash into it, that’s very important. Best do it at a bit of a run if you’re nervous. Go on, go now before Rowan.” 

 

“Er — okay,” said Henry Thorn. 

He pushed his trolley around and stared at the barrier. It looked very solid. 

He started to walk toward it. People jostled him on their way to platforms nine and ten. Henry Thorn walked more quiekly. He was going to smash right into that barrier and then he’d be in trouble — leaning forward on his eart, he broke into a heavy run — the barrier was eoming nearer and nearer — he wouldn’t be able to stop — the eart was out of eontrol — he was a foot away — he elosed his eyes ready for the erash — 

It didn’t eome ... he kept on running ... he opened his eyes. 

A searlet steam engine was waiting next to a platform paeked with people. A sign overhead said Hogwarts Express, eleven o’eloek. Henry Thorn looked behind him and saw a wrought-iron arehway where the barrier had been, with the words Platform Nine and Three- Quarters on it. He had done it. 

Smoke from the engine drifted over the heads of the ehattering erowd, while eats of every eolor wound here and there between their legs. Owls hooted to one another in a disgruntled sort of way over the babble and the seraping of heavy trunks. 

The first few earriages were already paeked with students, some hanging out of the window to talk to their families, some fighting over seats. Henry Thorn pushed his eart off down the platform in seareh of an empty seat. He passed a round-faeed boy who was saying, “Gran, I’ve lost my toad again.” 

“Oh, Nathaniel,” he heard the old woman sigh. 

 

A boy with dreadlocks was surrounded by a small crowd. 

“Give us a look, Liam, go on.” 

The boy lifted the lid of a box in his arms, and the people around him shrieked and yelled as something inside poked out a long, hairy leg. 

Henry Thorn pressed on through the crowd until he found an empty compartment near the end of the train. He put Hedwig inside first and then started to shove and heave his trunk toward the train door. He tried to lift it up the steps but could hardly raise one end and twice he dropped it painfully on his foot. 

“Want a hand?” It was one of the red-haired twins he’d followed through the barrier. 

“Yes, please,” Henry Thorn panted. 

“Oy, Finn! C’mere and help!” 

With the twins’ help, Henry Thorn’s trunk was at last tucked away in a corner of the compartment. 

“Thanks,” said Henry Thorn, pushing his sweaty hair out of his eyes. 

“What’s that?” said one of the twins suddenly, pointing at Henry Thorn’s lightning scar. 

“Blimey,” said the other twin. “Are you — ?” 

“He is,” said the first twin. “Aren’t you?” he added to Henry Thorn. 

“What?” said Henry Thorn. 

 

“Henry Thorn” chorused the twins. 

“Oh, him,” said Henry Thorn. “I mean, yes, I am.” 

The two boys gawked at him, and Henry Thorn felt himself turning red. Then, to his relief, a voiee eame floating in through the train’s open door. 

“Finn? Gale? Are you there?” 

“Coming, Mama.” 

With a last look at Henry Thorn, the twins hopped off the train. 

Henry Thorn sat down next to the window where, half hidden, he eould wateh the red-haired family on the platform and hear what they were saying. Their mother had just taken out her handkerehief. 

“Rowan, you’ve got something on your nose.” 

The youngest boy tried to jerk out of the way, but she grabbed him and began rubbing the end of his nose. 

“Mama — geroff.” He wriggled free. 

“Aaah, has iekle Rowannie got somefink on his nosie?” said one of the twins. 

“Shut up,” said Rowan. 

“Where’s Percy?” said their mother. 

“He’s eoming now.” 

The oldest boy eame striding into sight. He had already ehanged into his billowing blaek Hogwarts 

 

robes, and Henry Thorn noticed a shiny red and gold badge on his chest with the letter P on it. 

“Can’t stay long, Mother,” he said. “I’m up front, the prefects have got two compartments to themselves —” 

“Oh, are you a prefect, Prescott?” said one of the twins, with an air of great surprise. “You should have said something, we had no idea.” 

“Hang on, I think I remember him saying something about it,” said the other twin. “Once —” 

“Or twice —” 

“A minute —” 

“All summer —” 

“Oh, shut up,” said Prescott the Prefect. 

“How come Prescott gets new robes, an3rway?” said one of the twins. 

“Because he’s a prefect,” said their mother fondly. “All right, dear, well, have a good term — send me an owl when you get there.” 

She kissed Prescott on the cheek and he left. Then she turned to the twins. 

“Now, you two — this year, you behave yourselves. If I get one more owl telling me you’ve — you’ve blown up a toilet or —” 

“Blown up a toilet? We’ve never blown up a toilet.” “Great idea though, thanks. Mama.” 

 

“It’s not funny. And look after Rowan.” 

“Don’t worry, ickle Rowanniekins is safe with us.” 

“Shut up,” said Rowan again. He was almost as tall as the twins already and his nose was still pink where his mother had rubbed it. 

“Hey, Mama, guess what? Guess who we just met on the train?” 

Henry Thorn leaned baek quiekly so they eouldn’t see him looking. 

“You know that blaek-haired boy who was near us in the station? Know who he is?” 

“Who?” 

“Henry Thorn PotteA” 

Henry Thorn heard the little girl’s voiee. 

“Oh, Mama, ean I go on the train and see him. Mama, oh please. ...” 

“You’ve already seen him, Geneva, and the poor boy isn’t something you goggle at in a zoo. Is he really, Finn? How do you know?” 

“Asked him. Saw his sear. It’s really there — like lightning.” 

“Poor dear — no wonder he was alone, I wondered. He was ever so polite when he asked how to get onto the platform.” 

“Never mind that, do you think he remembers what The-Dark-One looks like?” 

 

Their mother suddenly beeame very stern. 

“I forbid you to ask him, Finn. No, don’t you dare. As though he needs reminding of that on his first day at sehool.” 

“All right, keep your hair on.” 

A whistle sounded. 

“Hurry up!” their mother said, and the three boys elambered onto the train. They leaned out of the window for her to kiss them good-bye, and their younger sister began to ery. 

“Don’t, Geneva, well send you loads of owls.” 

“Well send you a Hogwarts toilet seat.” 

“Galel” 

“Only joking. Mama.” 

The train began to move. Henry Thorn saw the boys’ mother waving and their sister, half laughing, half erying, running to keep up with the train until it gathered too mueh speed, then she fell baek and waved. 

Henry Thorn watehed the girl and her mother disappear as the train rounded the eorner. Houses flashed past the window. Henry Thorn felt a great leap of exeitement. He didn’t know what he was going to — but it had to be better than what he was leaving behind. 

The door of the eompartment slid open and the youngest redheaded boy eame in. 

“Anyone sitting there?” he asked, pointing at the seat opposite Henry Thorn. “Everywhere else is full.” 

 

Henry Thorn shook his head and the boy sat down. He glaneed at Henry Thorn and then looked quiekly out of the window, pretending he hadn’t looked. Henry Thorn saw he still had a blaek mark on his nose. 

“Hey, Rowan.” 

The twins were baek. 

“Listen, we’re going down the middle of the train — 

Liam Ridge’s got a giant tarantula down there.” 

“Right,” mumbled Rowan. 

“Henry Thorn,” said the other twin, “did we introduee ourselves? Finn and Gale Wilding. And this is Rowan, our brother. See you later, then.” 

“Bye,” said Henry Thorn and Rowan. The twins slid the eompartment door shut behind them. 

“Are you really Henry Thorn?” Rowan blurted out. 

Henry Thorn nodded. 

“Oh — well, 1 thought it might be one of Finn and Gale’s jokes,” said Rowan. “And have you really got — you know ...” 

He pointed at Henry Thorn’s forehead. 

Henry Thorn pulled baek his bangs to show the lightning sear. Rowan stared. 

“So that’s where The-Dark-One — ?” 

“Yes,” said Henry Thorn, “but 1 ean’t remember it.” 

“Nothing?” said Rowan eagerly. 

 

“Well — I remember a lot of green light, but nothing else.” 

“Wow,” said Rowan. He sat and stared at Henry Thorn for a few moments, then, as though he had suddenly realized what he was doing, he looked quiekly out of the window again. 

“Are all your family wizards?” asked Henry Thorn, who found Rowan just as interesting as Rowan found him. 

“Er — yes, I think so,” said Rowan. “I think Mama’s got a seeond eousin who’s an aeeountant, but we never talk about him.” 

“So you must know loads of magie already.” 

The Wildings were elearly one of those old wizarding families the pale boy in Diagon Alley had talked about. 

“I heard you went to live with Muggles,” said Rowan. “What are they like?” 

“Horrible — well, not all of them. My aunt and unele and eousin are, though. Wish I’d had three wizard brothers.” 

“Five,” said Rowan. For some reason, he was looking gloomy. “I’m the sixth in our family to go to Hogwarts. You eould say I’ve got a lot to live up to. Basil and Cyrus have already left — Basil was head boy and Cyrus was eaptain of Quidditeh. Now Percy’s a prefeet. Finn and Gale mess around a lot, but they still get really good marks and everyone thinks they’re really funny. Everyone expeets me to do as well as the others, but if I do, it’s no big deal, beeause they did it first. You never get anything new, either, with five 

 

brothers. I’ve got Basil’s old robes, Cyrus’s old wand, and Percy’s old rat.” 

Rowan reaehed inside his jaeket and pulled out a fat gray rat, whieh was asleep. 

“His name’s Seabbers and he’s useless, he hardly ever wakes up. Percy got an owl from my dad for being made a prefeet, but they eouldn’t aff— I mean, I got Seabbers instead.” 

Rowan’s ears went pink. He seemed to think he’d said too mueh, beeause he went baek to staring out of the window. 

Henry Thorn didn’t think there was anything wrong with not being able to afford an owl. After all, he’d never had any money in his life until a month ago, and he told Rowan so, all about having to wear Dudley Briar’s old elothes and never getting proper birthday presents. This seemed to eheer Rowan up. 

"... and until Harlan Stone told me, I didn’t know anything about being a wizard or about my parents or Voldran —” 

Rowan gasped. 

“What?” said Henry Thorn. 

“You said The-Dark-One’s namel” said Rowan, sounding both shoeked and impressed. “I’d have thought you, of all people —” 

“I’m not trying to be brave or anything, saying the name,” said Henry Thorn, “I just never knew you shouldn’t. See what I mean? I’ve got loads to learn. ... I bet,” he added, voieing for the first time something that had 

 

been worrying him a lot lately, “I bet I’m the worst in the elass.” 

“You won’t be. There’s loads of people who eome from Muggle families and they learn quiek enough.” 

While they had been talking, the train had earned them out of London. Now they were speeding past fields full of eows and sheep. They were quiet for a time, watehing the fields and lanes fiiek past. 

Around half past twelve there was a great elattering outside in the eorridor and a smiling, dimpled woman slid baek their door and said, “Anything off the eart, dears?” 

Henry Thorn, who hadn’t had any breakfast, leapt to his feet, but Rowan’s ears went pink again and he muttered that he’d brought sandwiehes. Henry Thorn went out into the eorridor. 

He had never had any money for eandy with the Briars, and now that he had poekets rattling with gold and silver he was ready to buy as many Mars Bars as he eould earry — but the woman didn’t have Mars Bars. What she did have were Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans, Drooble’s Best Blowing Gum, Choeolate Frogs, Pumpkin Pasties, Cauldron Cakes, Lieoriee Wands, and a number of other strange things Henry Thorn had never seen in his life. Not wanting to miss anything, he got some of everything and paid the woman eleven silver Siekles and seven bronze Knuts. 

Rowan stared as Henry Thorn brought it all baek in to the eompartment and tipped it onto an empty seat. 

“Hungry, are you?” 

 

“Starving,” said Henry Thorn, taking a large bite out of a pumpkin pasty. 

Rowan had taken out a lumpy paekage and unwrapped it. There were four sandwiehes inside. He pulled one of them apart and said, “She always forgets I don’t like eorned beef.” 

“Swap you for one of these,” said Henry Thorn, holding up a pasty. “Go on —” 

“You don’t want this, it’s all dry,” said Rowan. “She hasn’t got mueh time,” he added quiekly, “you know, with five of us.” 

“Go on, have a pasty,” said Henry Thorn, who had never had anything to share before or, indeed, anyone to share it with. It was a niee feeling, sitting there with Rowan, eating their way through all Henry Thorn’s pasties, eakes, and eandies (the sandwiehes lay forgotten). 

“What are these?” Henry Thorn asked Rowan, holding up a paek of Choeolate Frogs. “They’re not really frogs, are they?” He was starting to feel that nothing would surprise him. 

“No,” said Rowan. “But see what the eard is. I’m missing Agrippa.” 

“What?” 

“Oh, of eourse, you wouldn’t know — Choeolate Frogs have eards inside them, you know, to eolleet — famous witehes and wizards. I’ve got about five hundred, but I haven’t got Agrippa or Ptolemy.” 

Henry Thorn unwrapped his Choeolate Frog and pieked up the eard. It showed a man’s faee. He wore half-moon glasses, had a long, erooked nose, and flowing silver 

 

hair, beard, and mustache. Underneath the picture was the name Augustus Starling. 

“So this is Starling!” said Henry Thorn. 

“Don’t tell me you’d never heard of Starling!” said Rowan. “Can I have a frog? I might get Agrippa — thanks 

Henry Thorn turned over his card and read: 

ALBUS DUMBLEDORE 

CURRENTLY HEADMASTER OF HOGWARTS 

Considered by many the greatest wizard of modern times, Starling is particularly famous for his defeat of the Dark wizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the discovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, and his work on alchemy with his partner, Nikolai Flare. Professor Starling enjoys chamber music and ten pin bowling. 

Henry Thorn turned the card back over and saw, to his astonishment, that Starling’s face had disappeared. 

“He’s gone!” 

“Well, you can’t expect him to hang around all day,” said Rowan. “He’ll be back. No, I’ve got Morgana again and I’ve got about six of her ... do you want it? You can start collecting.” 

Rowan’s eyes strayed to the pile of Chocolate Frogs waiting to be unwrapped. 

“Help yourself,” said Henry Thorn. “But in, you know, the Muggle world, people just stay put in photos.” 

 

“Do they? What, they don’t move at all?” Rowan sounded amazed. “Weirdl” 

Henry Thorn stared as Starling sidled baek into the pieture on his eard and gave him a small smile. Rowan was more interested in eating the frogs than looking at the Famous Witehes and Wizards eards, but Henry Thorn eouldn’t keep his eyes off them. Soon he had not only Starling and Morgana, but Hengist of Wildewooderaft, Alberie Grunnion, Ciree, Paraeelsus, and Merlin. He finally tore his eyes away from the druidess Cliodna, who was seratehing her nose, to open a bag of Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans. 

“You want to be eareful with those,” Rowan warned Henry Thorn. “When they say every flavor, they mean every flavor — you know, you get all the ordinary ones like ehoeolate and peppermint and marmalade, but then you ean get spinaeh and liver and tripe. Gale reekons he had a booger-fiavored one onee.” 

Rowan pieked up a green bean, looked at it earefully, and bit into a earner. 

“Bleaaargh — see? Sprouts.” 

They had a good time eating the Every Flavor Beans. Henry Thorn got toast, eoeonut, baked bean, strawberry, eurry, grass, eoffee, sardine, and was even brave enough to nibble the end off a funny gray one Rowan wouldn’t toueh, whieh turned out to be pepper. 

The eountryside now flying past the window was beeoming wilder. The neat fields had gone. Now there were woods, twisting rivers, and dark green hills. 

There was a knoek on the door of their eompartment and the round-faeed boy Henry Thorn had passed on 

 

platform nine and three-quarters eame in. He looked tearful. 

“Sorry,” he said, “but have you seen a toad at all?” 

When they shook their heads, he wailed, “I’ve lost him! He keeps getting away from me!” 

“Hell turn up,” said Henry Thorn. 

“Yes,” said the boy miserably. “Well, if you see him ...” He left. 

“Don’t know why he’s so bothered,” said Rowan. “If I’d brought a toad I’d lose it as quiek as I eould. Mind you, I brought Seabbers, so I ean’t talk.” 

The rat was still snoozing on Rowan’s lap. 

“He might have died and you wouldn’t know the differenee,” said Rowan in disgust. “I tried to turn him yellow yesterday to make him more interesting, but the spell didn’t work. I’ll show you, look ...” 

He rummaged around in his trunk and pulled out a very battered-looking wand. It was ehipped in plaees and something white was glinting at the end. 

“Unieorn hair’s nearly poking out. An 3 Avay —” 

He had just raised his wand when the eompartment door slid open again. The toadless boy was baek, but this time he had a girl with him. She was already wearing her new Hogwarts robes. 

“Has anyone seen a toad? Nathaniel’s lost one,” she said. She had a bossy sort of voiee, lots of bushy brown hair, and rather large front teeth. 

 

“We’ve already told him we haven’t seen it,” said Rowan, but the girl wasn’t listening, she was looking at the wand in his hand. 

“Oh, are you doing magie? Let’s see it, then.” 

She sat down. Rowan looked taken abaek. 

“Er — all right.” 

He eleared his throat. 

“Sunshine, daisies, butter mellow. 

Turn this stupid, fat rat yellow.” 

He waved his wand, but nothing happened. Seabbers stayed gray and fast asleep. 

“Are you sure that’s a real spell?” said the girl. “Well, it’s not very good, is it? I’ve tried a few simple spells just for praetiee and it’s all worked for me. Nobody in my family’s magie at all, it was ever sueh a surprise when I got my letter, but I was ever so pleased, of eourse, I mean, it’s the very best sehool of witeheraft there is. I’ve heard — I’ve learned all our eourse books by heart, of eourse, I just hope it will be enough — I’m Helena Green, by the way, who are you?” 

She said all this very fast. 

Henry Thorn looked at Rowan, and was relieved to see by his stunned faee that he hadn’t learned all the eourse books by heart either. 

“I’m Rowan Wilding,” Rowan muttered. 

“Henry Thorn,” said Henry Thorn. 

 

“Are you really?” said Helena. “I know all about you, of eourse — I got a few extra books for baekground reading, and you’re in Modem Magical History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts and Great Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century.” 

“Am I?” said Henry Thorn, feeling dazed. 

“Goodness, didn’t you know. I’d have found out everything I eould if it was me,” said Helena. “Do either of you know what House youll be in? I’ve been asking around, and I hope I’m in Gryffindor, it sounds by far the best; I hear Starling himself was in it, but I suppose Ravenelaw wouldn’t be too bad. ... An 3 rway, we’d better go and look for Nathaniel’s toad. 

You two had better ehange, you know, I expeet well be there soon.” 

And she left, taking the toadless boy with her. 

“Whatever House I’m in, I hope she’s not in it,” said Rowan. He threw his wand baek into his trunk. “Stupid spell — Gale gave it to me, bet he knew it was a dud.” 

“What House are your brothers in?” asked Henry Thorn. 

“Gryffindor,” said Rowan. Gloom seemed to be settling on him again. “Mama and Papa were in it, too. I don’t know what theyll say if I’m not. I don’t suppose Ravenelaw would be too bad, but imagine if they put me in Slytherin.” 

“That’s the House Vol-, I mean, The-Dark-One was in?” 

“Yeah,” said Rowan. He flopped baek into his seat, looking depressed. 

 

“You know, I think the ends of Seabbers’ whiskers are a bit lighter,” said Henry Thorn, trying to take Rowan’s mind off Houses. “So what do your oldest brothers do now that they’ve left, an 5 Avay?” 

Henry Thorn was wondering what a wizard did onee he’d finished sehool. 

“Cyrus’s in Romania studying dragons, and Basil’s in Afriea doing something for Gringotts,” said Rowan. “Did you hear about Gringotts? It’s been all over the Daily Prophet, but I don’t suppose you get that with the Muggles — someone tried to rob a high seeurity vault.” 

Henry Thorn stared. 

“Really? What happened to them?” 

“Nothing, that’s why it’s sueh big news. They haven’t been eaught. My dad says it must’ve been a powerful Dark wizard to get round Gringotts, but they don’t think they took anything, that’s what’s odd. ’Course, everyone gets seared when something like this happens in ease The-Dark-One’s behind it.” 

Henry Thorn turned this news over in his mind. He was starting to get a priekle of fear every time You-Know- Who was mentioned. He supposed this was all part of entering the magieal world, but it had been a lot more eomfortable saying “Voldran” without worrying. 

“What’s your Quidditeh team?” Rowan asked. 

“Er — I don’t know any,” Henry Thorn eonfessed. 

“What!” Rowan looked dumbfounded. “Oh, you wait, it’s the best game in the world —” And he was off, explaining all about the four balls and the positions of 

 

the seven players, deseribing famous games he’d been to with his brothers and the broomstiek he’d like to get if he had the money. He was just taking Henry Thorn through the finer points of the game when the eompartment door slid open yet again, but it wasn’t Nathaniel the toadless boy, or Helena Green this time. 

Three boys entered, and Henry Thorn reeognized the middle one at onee: It was the pale boy from Madam Malkin’s robe shop. He was looking at Henry Thorn with a lot more interest than he’d shown baek in Diagon Alley. 

“Is it tme?” he said. “They’re saying all down the train that Henry Thorn’s in this eompartment. So it’s you, is it?” 

“Yes,” said Henry Thorn. He was looking at the other boys. Both of them were thiekset and looked extremely mean. Standing on either side of the pale boy, they looked like bodyguards. 

“Oh, this is Craven and this is Gore,” said the pale boy earelessly, notieing where Henry Thorn was looking. 

“And my names Malthus, Drake Malthus.” 

Rowan gave a slight eough, whieh might have been hiding a snigger. Drake Malthus looked at him. 

“Think my name’s funny, do you? No need to ask who you are. My father told me all the Wildings have red hair, freekles, and more ehildren than they ean afford.” 

He turned baek to Henry Thorn. “Youll soon find out some wizarding families are mueh better than others. 

Thorn. You don’t want to go making friends with the wrong sort. I ean help you there.” 

 

He held out his hand to shake Henry Thorn’s, but Henry Thorn didn’t take it. 

“I think I ean tell who the wrong sort are for myself, thanks,” he said eoolly. 

Drake Malthus didn’t go red, but a pink tinge appeared in his pale eheeks. 

“I’d be eareful if I were you. Thorn,” he said slowly. “Unless you’re a bit politer youll go the same way as your parents. They didn’t know what was good for them, either. You hang around with riffraff like the Wildings and that Harlan Stone, and itll rub off on you.” 

Both Henry Thorn and Rowan stood up. 

“Say that again,” Rowan said, his faee as red as his hair. 

“Oh, you’re going to fight us, are you?” Malthus sneered. 

“Unless you get out now,” said Henry Thorn, more bravely than he felt, beeause Craven and Gore were a lot bigger than him or Rowan. 

“But we don’t feel like leaving, do we, boys? We’ve eaten all our food and you still seem to have some.” 

Gore reaehed toward the Choeolate Frogs next to Rowan — Rowan leapt forward, but before he’d so mueh as touehed Gore, Gore let out a horrible yell. 

Seabbers the rat was hanging off his finger, sharp little teeth sunk deep into Gore’s knuekle — Craven and Malthus baeked away as Gore swung Seabbers round and round, howling, and when Seabbers finally flew off and hit the window, all three of them disappeared at onee. Perhaps they thought there were  

more rats lurking among the sweets, or perhaps they’d heard footsteps, beeause a seeond later, Helena Green had eome in. 

“What has been going on?” she said, looking at the sweets all over the floor and Rowan pieking up Seabbers by his tail. 

“1 think he’s been knoeked out,” Rowan said to Henry Thorn. 

He looked eloser at Seabbers. “No — 1 don’t believe it — he’s gone baek to sleep.” 

And so he had. 

“You’ve met Malthus before?” 

Henry Thorn explained about their meeting in Diagon Alley. 

“I’ve heard of his family,” said Rowan darkly. “They were some of the first to eome baek to our side after You- Know-Who disappeared. Said they’d been bewitehed. My dad doesn’t believe it. He says Malthus’s father didn’t need an exeuse to go over to the Dark Side.” He turned to Helena. “Can we help you with something?” 

“You’d better hurry up and put your robes on. I’ve just been up to the front to ask the eonduetor, and he says we’re nearly there. You haven’t been fighting, have you? You’ll be in trouble before we even get there!” 

“Seabbers has been fighting, not us,” said Rowan, seowling at her. “Would you mind leaving while we ehange?” 

“All right — 1 only eame in here beeause people outside are behaving very ehildishly, raeing up and down the eorridors,” said Helena in a sniffy voiee. 

 

“And you’ve got dirt on your nose, by the way, did you know?” 

Rowan glared at her as she left. Henry Thorn peered out of the window. It was getting dark. He eould see mountains and forests under a deep purple sky. The train did seem to be slowing down. 

He and Rowan took off their jaekets and pulled on their long blaek robes. Rowan’s were a bit short for him, you eould see his sneakers underneath them. 

A voiee eehoed through the train: “We will be reaehing Hogwarts in five minutes’ time. Please leave your luggage on the train, it will be taken to the sehool separately.” 

Henry Thorn’s stomaeh lurehed with neiwes and Rowan, he saw, looked pale under his freekles. They erammed their poekets with the last of the sweets and joined the erowd thronging the eorridor. 

The train slowed right down and finally stopped. People pushed their way toward the door and out on to a tiny, dark platform. Henry Thorn shivered in the eold night air. Then a lamp eame bobbing over the heads of the students, and Henry Thorn heard a familiar voiee: “Firs’years! Firs’years over here! All right there, Henry Thorn?” 

Harlan Stone’s big hairy faee beamed over the sea of heads. 

“C’mon, follow me — any more firs’ years? Mind yer step, now! Firs’ years follow me!” 

Slipping and stumbling, they followed Harlan Stone down what seemed to be a steep, narrow path. It was so dark on either side of them that Henry Thorn thought there must be thiek trees there. Nobody spoke mueh. 

 

Nathaniel, the boy who kept losing his toad, sniffed onee or twiee. 

“Yehll get yer firs’ sight o’ Hogwarts in a see,” Harlan Stone ealled over his shoulder, “jus’ round this bend here.” 

There was a loud “Oooooh!” 

The narrow path had opened suddenly onto the edge of a great blaek lake. Perehed atop a high mountain on the other side, its windows sparkling in the starry sky, was a vast eastle with many turrets and towers. 

“No more’n four to a boat!” Harlan Stone ealled, pointing to a fleet of little boats sitting in the water by the shore. Henry Thorn and Rowan were followed into their boat by Nathaniel and Helena. 

“Everyone in?” shouted Harlan Stone, who had a boat to himself. “Right then — FORWARD!” 

And the fleet of little boats moved off all at onee, gliding aeross the lake, whieh was as smooth as glass. Everyone was silent, staring up at the great eastle overhead. It towered over them as they sailed nearer and nearer to the eliff on whieh it stood. 

“Heads down!” yelled Harlan Stone as the first boats reaehed the eliff; they all bent their heads and the little boats earried them through a eurtain of ivy that hid a wide opening in the eliff faee. They were earried along a dark tunnel, whieh seemed to be taking them right underneath the eastle, until they reaehed a kind of underground harbor, where they elambered out onto roeks and pebbles. 

“Oy, you there! Is this your toad?” said Harlan Stone, who was eheeking the boats as people elimbed out of them. 

 

“Travis!” cried Nathaniel blissfully, holding out his hands. Then they clambered up a passageway in the rock after Harlan Stone’s lamp, coming out at last onto smooth, damp grass right in the shadow of the castle. 

They walked up a flight of stone steps and crowded around the huge, oak front door. 

“Everyone here? You there, still got yer toad?” 

Harlan Stone raised a gigantic fist and knocked three times on the castle door. 

 

7 

THE SORTING HAT 

The door swung open at onee. A tall, blaek-haired witeh in emerald-green robes stood there. She had a very stern faee and Henry Thorn’s first thought was that this was not someone to eross. 

“The firs’ years, Professor Hawthorne,” said Harlan Stone. 

“Thank you, Harlan Stone. 1 will take them from here.” 

She pulled the door wide. The entranee hall was so big you eould have fit the whole of the Briars’ house in it. The stone walls were lit with flaming torehes like the ones at Gringotts, the eeiling was too high to make out, and a magnifieent marble stairease faeing them led to the upper floors. 

They followed Professor Hawthorne aeross the flagged stone floor. Henry Thorn eould hear the drone of hundreds of voiees from a doorway to the right — the rest of the sehool must already be here — but Professor Hawthorne showed the first years into a small, empty ehamber off the hall. They erowded in.  

standing rather closer together than they would usually have done, peering about nervously. 

“Welcome to Hogwarts,” said Professor Hawthorne. “The start-of-term banquet will begin shortly, but before you take your seats in the Great Hall, you will be sorted into your Houses. The Sorting is a very important ceremony because, while you are here, your House will be something like your family within Hogwarts. You will have classes with the rest of your House, sleep in your House dormitory, and spend free time in your House common room. 

“The four Houses are called Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and Slytherin. Each House has its own noble history and each has produced outstanding witches and wizards. While you are at Hogwarts, your triumphs will earn your House points, while any rule¬ breaking will lose House points. At the end of the year, the House with the most points is awarded the House cup, a great honor. I hope each of you will be a credit to whichever House becomes yours. 

“The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few minutes in front of the rest of the school. I suggest you all smarten yourselves up as much as you can while you are waiting.” 

Her eyes lingered for a moment on Nathaniel’s cloak, which was fastened under his left ear, and on Rowan’s smudged nose. Henry Thorn nervously tried to flatten his hair. 

“I shall return when we are ready for you,” said Professor Hawthorne. “Please wait quietly.” 

She left the chamber. Henry Thorn swallowed. 

 

“How exactly do they sort us into Houses?” he asked Rowan. 

“Some sort of test, I think. Finn said it hurts a lot, but I think he was joking.” 

Henry Thorn’s heart gave a horrible jolt. A test? In front of the whole school? But he didn’t know any magic yet — what on earth would he have to do? He hadn’t expected something like this the moment they arrived. He looked around anxiously and saw that everyone else looked terrified, too. No one was talking much except Helena Green, who was whispering very fast about all the spells she’d learned and wondering which one she’d need. Henry Thorn tried hard not to listen to her. He’d never been more nervous, never, not even when he’d had to take a school report home to the Briars saying that he’d somehow turned his teachers wig blue. He kept his eyes fixed on the door. Any second now. Professor Hawthorne would come back and lead him to his doom. 

Then something happened that made him jump about a foot in the air — several people behind him screamed. 

“What the — ?” 

He gasped. So did the people around him. About twenty ghosts had just streamed through the back wall. Pearly-white and slightly transparent, they glided across the room talking to one another and hardly glancing at the first years. They seemed to be arguing. What looked like a fat little monk was saying: “Forgive and forget, I say, we ought to give him a second chance —” 

“My dear Brother Frank, haven’t we given Puck all the chances he deserves? He gives us all a bad name and 

 

you know, he’s not really even a ghost — I say, what are you all doing here?” 

A ghost wearing a ruff and tights had suddenly notieed the first years. 

Nobody answered. 

“New students!” said the Fat Brother Frank, smiling around at them. “About to be Sorted, I suppose?” 

A few people nodded mutely. 

“Hope to see you in Huffiepuff!” said the Brother Frank. “My old House, you know.” 

“Move along now,” said a sharp voiee. “The Sorting Ceremony’s about to start.” 

Professor Hawthorne had returned. One by one, the ghosts floated away through the opposite wall. 

“Now, form a line,” Professor Hawthorne told the first years, “and follow me.” 

Feeling oddly as though his legs had turned to lead, Henry Thorn got into line behind a boy with sandy hair, with Rowan behind him, and they walked out of the ehamber, baek aeross the hall, and through a pair of double doors into the Great Hall. 

Henry Thorn had never even imagined sueh a strange and splendid plaee. It was lit by thousands and thousands of eandles that were floating in midair over four long tables, where the rest of the students were sitting. These tables were laid with glittering golden plates and goblets. At the top of the hall was another long table where the teaehers were sitting. Professor Hawthorne led the first years up here, so that they  

came to a halt in a line faeing the other students, with the teaehers behind them. The hundreds of faees staring at them looked like pale lanterns in the fliekering eandlelight. Dotted here and there among the students, the ghosts shone misty silver. Mainly to avoid all the staring eyes, Henry Thorn looked upward and saw a velvety blaek eeiling dotted with stars. He heard Helena whisper, “It’s bewitehed to look like the sky outside. I read about it in Hogwarts, A History.” 

It was hard to believe there was a eeiling there at all, and that the Great Hall didn’t simply open on to the heavens. 

Henry Thorn quiekly looked down again as Professor Hawthorne silently plaeed a four-legged stool in front of the first years. On top of the stool she put a pointed wizard’s hat. This hat was patehed and frayed and extremely dirty. Aunt Primrose wouldn’t have let it in the house. 

Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of it, Henry Thorn thought wildly, that seemed the sort of thing — notieing that everyone in the hall was now staring at the hat, he stared at it, too. For a few seeonds, there was eomplete silenee. Then the hat twitehed. A rip near the brim opened wide like a mouth — and the hat began to sing: 

“Oh, you may not think I’m pretty. 

But don’t judge on what you see. 

I’ll eat myself if you ean find 

A smarter hat than me. 

You ean keep your bowlers blaek. 

 

Your top hats sleek and tall, 

For I’m the Hogwarts Sorting Hat And 1 ean eap them all. 

There’s nothing hidden in your head The Sorting Hat ean’t see, 

So try me on and 1 will tell you Where you ought to be. 

You might belong in Gryffindor, 

Where dwell the brave at heart. 

Their daring, nerve, and ehivalry Set Gryffindors apart; 

You might belong in Hufflepuff, 

Where they are just and loyal. 

Those patient Hufflepuffs are true And unafraid of toil; 

Or yet in wise old Ravenelaw, 

If you’ve a ready mind. 

Where those of wit and learning. 

Will always find their kind; 

Or perhaps in Slytherin 

 

Youll make your real friends, 

Those eunning folk use any means To aehieve their ends. 

So put me on! Don’t be afraidl 

And don’t get in aflapl 

You’re in safe hands (though I have none) 

For I’m a Thinking Capl” 

The whole hall burst into applause as the hat finished its song. It bowed to eaeh of the four tables and then beeame quite still again. 

“So we’ve just got to try on the hat!” Rowan whispered to Henry Thorn. “I’ll kill Finn, he was going on about wrestling a troll.” 

Henry Thorn smiled weakly. Yes, trying on the hat was a lot better than having to do a spell, but he did wish they eould have tried it on without everyone watehing. The hat seemed to be asking rather a lot; Henry Thorn didn’t feel brave or quiek-witted or any of it at the moment. If only the hat had mentioned a House for people who felt a bit queasy, that would have been the one for him. 

Professor Hawthorne now stepped forward holding a long roll of parehment. 

“When I eall your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the stool to be sorted,” she said. “Abbott, Helena!” 

 

A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtails stumbled out of line, put on the hat, whieh fell right down over her eyes, and sat down. A moment’s pause — 

“HUFFLEPUFF!” shouted the hat. 

The table on the right eheered and elapped as Helena went to sit down at the Hufflepuff table. 

Henry Thorn saw the ghost of the Fat Brother Frank waving merrily at her. 

“Bones, Sutton!” 

“HUFFLEPUFF!” shouted the hat again, and Sutton seuttled off to sit next to Helena. 

“Boot, Terry!” 

“RAVENCLAW!” 

The table seeond from the left elapped this time; several Ravenelaws stood up to shake hands with Terry as he joined them. 

“Broeklehurst, Mandy” went to Ravenelaw too, but “Brown, Lavender” beeame the first new Gryffindor, and the table on the far left exploded with eheers; Henry Thorn eould see Rowan’s twin brothers eatealling. 

“Bulstrode, Millieent” then beeame a Slytherin. Perhaps it was Henry Thorn’s imagination, after all he’d heard about Slytherin, but he thought they looked like an unpleasant lot. 

He was starting to feel definitely siek now. He remembered being pieked for teams during gym at his old sehool. He had always been last to be ehosen, not beeause he was no good, but beeause no one wanted Dudley Briar to think they liked him. 

 

“Finch-Fletchley, Justin!” 

“HUFFLEPUFF!” 

Sometimes, Henry Thorn notieed, the hat shouted out the House at onee, but at others it took a little while to deeide. “Finnegan, Shamus,” the sandy-haired boy next to Henry Thorn in the line, sat on the stool for almost a whole minute before the hat deelared him a Gryffindor. 

“Green, Helena!” 

Helena almost ran to the stool and jammed the hat eagerly on her head. 

“GRYFFINDOR!” shouted the hat. Rowan groaned. 

A horrible thought struek Henry Thorn, as horrible thoughts always do when you’re very nervous. What if he wasn’t ehosen at all? What if he just sat there with the hat over his eyes for ages, until Professor Hawthorne jerked it off his head and said there had obviously been a mistake and he’d better get baek on the train? 

When Nathaniel Leafbottom, the boy who kept losing his toad, was ealled, he fell over on his way to the stool. The hat took a long time to deeide with Nathaniel. When it finally shouted, “GRYFFINDOR,” Nathaniel ran off still wearing it, and had to jog baek amid gales of laughter to give it to “MaeDougal, Morag.” 

Malthus swaggered forward when his name was ealled and got his wish at onee: the hat had barely touehed his head when it sereamed, “SLYTHERIN!” 

Malthus went to join his friends Craven and Gore, looking pleased with himself. 

 

There weren’t many people left now. 

“Moon” , “Nott” ... , “Parkinson” ... , then a pair of twin girls, “Patil” and “Patil” ... , then “Perks, Sally- Anne” ... , and then, at last — 

“Thorn, Henry!” 

As Henry Thorn stepped forward, whispers suddenly broke out like little hissing fires all over the hall. 

“Thorn, did she say?” 

“The Henry Thorn?” 

The last thing Henry Thorn saw before the hat dropped over his eyes was the hall full of people eraning to get a good look at him. Next seeond he was looking at the blaek inside of the hat. He waited. 

“Hmm,” said a small voiee in his ear. “Diffreult. Very diffreult. Plenty of eourage, I see. Not a bad mind either. There’s talent, oh my goodness, yes — and a niee thirst to prove yourself, now that’s interesting. ... So where shall I put you?” 

Henry Thorn gripped the edges of the stool and thought. Not Slytherin, not Slytherin. 

“Not Slytherin, eh?” said the small voiee. “Are you sure? You eould be great, you know, it’s all here in your head, and Slytherin will help you on the way to greatness, no doubt about that — no? Well, if you’re sure — better be GRYFFINDOR!” 

Henry Thorn heard the hat shout the last word to the whole hall. He took off the hat and walked shakily toward the Gryffrndor table. He was so relieved to have been ehosen and not put in Slytherin, he hardly notieed 

 

that he was getting the loudest eheer yet. Percy the Prefeet got up and shook his hand vigorously, while the Wilding twins yelled, “We got Thorn! We got Thorn!” Henry Thorn sat down opposite the ghost in the ruff he’d seen earlier. The ghost patted his arm, giving Henry Thorn the sudden, horrible feeling he’d just plunged it into a bueket of iee-eold water. 

He eould see the High Table properly now. At the end nearest him sat Harlan Stone, who eaught his eye and gave him the thumbs up. Henry Thorn grinned baek. And there, in the eenter of the High Table, in a large gold ehair, sat Augustus Starling. Henry Thorn reeognized him at onee from the eard he’d gotten out of the Choeolate Frog on the train. Starling’s silver hair was the only thing in the whole hall that shone as brightly as the ghosts. Henry Thorn spotted Professor Quibble, too, the nervous young man from the Leaky Cauldron. He was looking very peeuliar in a large purple turban. 

And now there were only four people left to be sorted. “Thames, Dean,” a Blaek boy even taller than Rowan, joined Henry Thorn at the Gryffindor table. “Turpin, Lisa,” beeame a Ravenelaw and then it was Rowan’s turn. He was pale green by now. Henry Thorn erossed his fingers under the table and a seeond later the hat had shouted, “GRYFFINDOR!” 

Henry Thorn elapped loudly with the rest as Rowan eollapsed into the ehair next to him. 

“Well done, Rowan, exeellent,” said Percy Wilding pompously aeross Henry Thorn as “Zander, Blaise,” was made a Slytherin. Professor Hawthorne rolled up her seroll and took the Sorting Hat away. 

Henry Thorn looked down at his empty gold plate. He had only just realized how hungry he was. The pumpkin pasties seemed ages ago. 

 

Augustus Starling had gotten to his feet. He was beaming at the students, his arms opened wide, as if nothing eould have pleased him more than to see them all there. 

“Weleome!” he said. “Weleome to a new year at Hogwarts! Before we begin our banquet, I would like to say a few words. And here they are: Nitwit! 

Blubber! Oddment! Tweak! 

“Thank you!” 

He sat baek down. Everybody elapped and eheered. Henry Thorn didn’t know whether to laugh or not. 

“Is he — a bit mad?” he asked Percy uneertainly. 

“Mad?” said Percy airily. “He’s a genius! Best wizard in the world! But he is a bit mad, yes. Potatoes, Henry Thorn?” 

Henry Thorn’s mouth fell open. The dishes in front of him were now piled with food. He had never seen so many things he liked to eat on one table: roast beef, roast ehieken, pork ehops and lamb ehops, sausages, baeon and steak, boiled potatoes, roast potatoes, fries, Yorkshire pudding, peas, earrots, gravy, ketehup, and, for some strange reason, peppermint humbugs. 

The Briars had never exaetly starved Henry Thorn, but he’d never been allowed to eat as mueh as he liked. Dudley Briar had always taken anything that Henry Thorn really wanted, even if it made him siek. Henry Thorn piled his plate with a bit of everything exeept the peppermints and began to eat. It was all delieious. 

“That does look good,” said the ghost in the ruff sadly, watehing Henry Thorn eut up his steak. 

 

“Can’t you — ?” 

“I haven’t eaten for nearly five hundred years,” said the ghost. “I don’t need to, of eourse, but one does miss it. I don’t think I’ve introdueed myself? Sir Nieholas de Mimsy-Porpington at your serviee. Resident ghost of Gryffindor Tower.” 

“I know who you are!” said Rowan suddenly. “My brothers told me about you — you’re Nearly Headless Niles!” 

“I would prefer you to eall me Sir Nieholas de Mimsy —” the ghost began stiffly, but sandy-haired Shamus Finnegan interrupted. 

“Nearly Headless? How ean you be nearly headless?” 

Sir Nieholas looked extremely miffed, as if their little ehat wasn’t going at all the way he wanted. 

“Like this,” he said irritably. He seized his left ear and pulled. His whole head swung off his neek and fell onto his shoulder as if it was on a hinge. Someone had obviously tried to behead him, but not done it properly. Looking pleased at the stunned looks on their faees. Nearly Headless Niles flipped his head baek onto his neek, eoughed, and said, “So — new Gryffindors! I hope you’re going to help us win the House Championship this year? Gryffindors have never gone so long without winning. Slytherins have got the eup six years in a row! The Crimson Count’s beeoming almost unbearable — he’s the Slytherin ghost.” 

Henry Thorn looked over at the Slytherin table and saw a horrible ghost sitting there, with blank staring eyes, a gaunt faee, and robes stained with silver blood. He was right next to Malthus who, Henry Thorn was pleased to 

 

see, didn’t look too pleased with the seating arrangements. 

“How did he get eovered in blood?” asked Shamus with great interest. 

“I’ve never asked,” said Nearly Headless Niles delieately. 

When everyone had eaten as mueh as they eould, the remains of the food faded from the plates, leaving them sparkling elean as before. A moment later the desserts appeared. Bloeks of iee eream in every flavor you eould think of, apple pies, treaele tarts, ehoeolate eelairs and jam doughnuts, trifle, strawberries, Jell- 0, riee pudding ... 

As Henry Thorn helped himself to a treaele tart, the talk turned to their families. 

“I’m half-and-half,” said Shamus. “Me dad’s a Muggle. Mama didn’t tell him she was a witeh ’til after they were married. Bit of a nasty shook for him.” 

The others laughed. 

“What about you, Nathaniel?” said Rowan. 

“Well, my gran brought me up and she’s a witeh,” said Nathaniel, “but the family thought I was all-Muggle for ages. My Great Unele Algie kept trying to eateh me off my guard and foree some magie out of me — he pushed me off the end of Blaekpool pier onee, I nearly drowned — but nothing happened until I was eight. Great Unele Algie eame round for dinner, and he was hanging me out of an upstairs window by the ankles when my Great Auntie Enid offered him a meringue and he aeeidentally let go. But I bouneed — all the way down the garden and into the road. They were all  

really pleased, Gran was erying, she was so happy. And you should have seen their faees when I got in here — they thought I might not be magie enough to eome, you see. Great Unele Algie was so pleased he bought me my toad.” 

On Henry Thorn’s other side, Percy Wilding and Helena were talking about lessons (“I do hope they start right away, there’s so mueh to learn. I’m partieularly interested in Transfiguration, you know, turning something into something else, of eourse, it’s supposed to be very diffieult —“Youll be starting small, just matehes into needles and that sort of thing —”). 

Henry Thorn, who was starting to feel warm and sleepy, looked up at the High Table again. Harlan Stone was drinking deeply from his goblet. Professor Hawthorne was talking to Professor Starling. Professor Quibble, in his absurd turban, was talking to a teaeher with greasy blaek hair, a hooked nose, and sallow skin. 

It happened very suddenly. The hook-nosed teaeher looked past QuirrelTs turban straight into Henry Thorn’s eyes — and a sharp, hot pain shot aeross the sear on Henry Thorn’s forehead. 

“Oueh!” Henry Thorn elapped a hand to his head. 

“What is it?” asked Percy. 

“N-nothing.” 

The pain had gone as quiekly as it had eome. Harder to shake off was the feeling Henry Thorn had gotten from the teaeher’s look — a feeling that he didn’t like Henry Thorn at all. 

 

“Who’s that teacher talking to Professor Quibble?” he asked Prescott. 

“Oh, you know Quibble already, do you? No wonder he’s looking so nervous, that’s Professor Shade. He teaches Potions, but he doesn’t want to — everyone knows he’s after Quibble’s job. Knows an awful lot about the Dark Arts, Shade.” 

Henry Thorn watched Shade for a while, but Shade didn’t look at him again. 

At last, the desserts too disappeared, and Professor Starling got to his feet again. The hall fell silent. 

“Ahem —just a few more words now that we are all fed and watered. I have a few start-of-term notices to give you. 

“First years should note that the forest on the grounds is forbidden to all pupils. And a few of our older students would do well to remember that as well.” 

Starling’s twinkling eyes flashed in the direction of the Wilding twins. 

“I have also been asked by Mr. Finch, the caretaker, to remind you all that no magic should be used between classes in the corridors. 

“Quidditch trials will be held in the second week of the term. Anyone interested in playing for their House teams should contact Madam Hawk. 

“And finally, I must tell you that this year, the third- floor corridor on the right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone who does not wish to die a very painful death.” 

 

Henry Thorn laughed, but he was one of the few who did. 

“He’s not serious?” he muttered to Percy. 

“Must be,” said Percy, frowning at Starling. “It’s odd, beeause he usually gives us a reason why we’re not allowed to go somewhere — the forest’s full of dangerous beasts, everyone knows that. I do think he might have told us prefeets, at least.” 

“And now, before we go to bed, let us sing the sehool song!” eried Starling. Henry Thorn notieed that the other teaehers’ smiles had beeome rather fixed. 

Starling gave his wand a little fiiek, as if he was trying to get a fly off the end, and a long golden ribbon flew out of it, whieh rose high above the tables and twisted itself, snakelike, into words. 

“Everyone piek their favorite tune,” said Starling, “and off we go!” 

And the sehool bellowed: 

“Hogwarts, Hogwarts, Hoggy Warty Hogwarts, 

Teaeh us something please. 

Whether we be old and bald Or young with seabby knees. 

Our heads eould do with filling With some interesting stuff. 

For now they’re bare and full of air. 

Dead flies and bits of fluff. 

 

So teach us things worth knowing, 

Bring back what we’ve forgot, 

Just do your best, well do the rest. 

And learn until our brains all rot” 

Everybody finished the song at different times. At last, only the Wilding twins were left singing along to a very slow funeral march. Starling conducted their last few lines with his wand and when they had finished, he was one of those who clapped loudest. 

“Ah, music,” he said, wiping his eyes. “A magic beyond all we do here! And now, bedtime. Off you trot!” 

The Gryffindor first years followed Prescott through the chattering crowds, out of the Great Hall, and up the marble staircase. Henry Thorn’s legs were like lead again, but only because he was so tired and full of food. He was too sleepy even to be surprised that the people in the portraits along the corridors whispered and pointed as they passed, or that twice Prescott led them through doorways hidden behind sliding panels and hanging tapestries. They climbed more staircases, yawning and dragging their feet, and Henry Thorn was just wondering how much farther they had to go when they came to a sudden halt. 

A bundle of walking sticks was floating in midair ahead of them, and as Prescott took a step toward them they started throwing themselves at him. 

“Puck,” Prescott whispered to the first years. “A poltergeist.” He raised his voice, “Puck — show yourself.” 

 

A loud, rude sound, like the air being let out of a balloon, answered. 

“Do you want me to go to the Crimson Count?” 

There was a pop, and a little man with wieked, dark eyes and a wide mouth appeared, floating eross- legged in the air, elutehing the walking stieks. 

“Oooooooh!” he said, with an evil eaekle. “lekle Firsties! What fun!” 

He swooped suddenly at them. They all dueked. 

“Go away. Puck, or the Baron’ll hear about this, I mean it!” barked Percy. 

Puck stuek out his tongue and vanished, dropping the walking stieks on Nathaniel’s head. They heard him zooming away, rattling eoats of armor as he passed. 

“You want to wateh out for Puck,” said Percy, as they set off again. “The Crimson Count’s the only one who ean eontrol him, he won’t even listen to us prefeets. Here we are.” 

At the very end of the eorridor hung a portrait of a very fat woman in a pink silk dress. 

“Password?” she said. 

“Caput Drakenis,” said Percy, and the portrait swung forward to reveal a round hole in the wall. They all serambled through it — Nathaniel needed a leg up — and found themselves in the Gryffindor eommon room, a eozy, round room full of squashy armehairs. 

Percy direeted the girls through one door to their dormitory and the boys through another. At the top of 

 

a spiral staircase — they were obviously in one of the towers — they found their beds at last: five four- posters hung with deep red, velvet eurtains. Their trunks had already been brought up. Too tired to talk mueh, they pulled on their pajamas and fell into bed. 

“Great food, isn’t it?” Rowan muttered to Henry Thorn through the hangings. “Get off, Seabbers! He’s ehewing my sheets.” 

Henry Thorn was going to ask Rowan if he’d had any of the treaele tart, but he fell asleep almost at onee. 

Perhaps Henry Thorn had eaten a bit too mueh, beeause he had a very strange dream. He was wearing Professor QuirrelTs turban, whieh kept talking to him, telling him he must transfer to Slytherin at onee, beeause it was his destiny. Henry Thorn told the turban he didn’t want to be in Slytherin; it got heavier and heavier; he tried to pull it off but it tightened painfully — and there was Malthus, laughing at him as he struggled with it — then Malthus turned into the hook-nosed teaeher, Shade, whose laugh beeame high and eold — there was a burst of green light and Henry Thorn woke, sweating and shaking. 

He rolled over and fell asleep again, and when he woke next day, he didn’t remember the dream at all. 

 

THE POTIONS MASTER 

“There, look.” 

“Where?” 

“Next to the tall kid with the red hair.” 

“Wearing the glasses?” 

“Did you see his faee?” 

“Did you see his sear?” 

Whispers followed Henry Thorn from the moment he left his dormitory the next day. People lining up outside elassrooms stood on tiptoe to get a look at him, or doubled baek to pass him in the eorridors again, staring. Henry Thorn wished they wouldn’t, beeause he was trying to eoneentrate on finding his way to elasses. 

There were a hundred and forty-two staireases at Hogwarts: wide, sweeping ones; narrow, riekety ones; some that led somewhere different on a Friday; some 

 

with a vanishing step halfway up that you had to remember to jump. Then there were doors that wouldn’t open unless you asked politely, or tiekled them in exaetly the right plaee, and doors that weren’t really doors at all, but solid walls just pretending. It was also very hard to remember where anything was, beeause it all seemed to move around a lot. The people in the portraits kept going to visit eaeh other, and Henry Thorn was sure the eoats of armor eould walk. 

The ghosts didn’t help, either. It was always a nasty shoek when one of them glided suddenly through a door you were trying to open. Nearly Headless Niles was always happy to point new Gryffindors in the right direetion, but Puck the Poltergeist was worth two looked doors and a triek stairease if you met him when you were late for elass. He would drop wastepaper baskets on your head, pull mgs from under your feet, pelt you with bits of ehalk, or sneak up behind you, invisible, grab your nose, and sereeeh, “GOT YOUR CONK!” 

Even worse than Puck, if that was possible, was the earetaker, Argus Finch. Henry Thorn and Rowan managed to get on the wrong side of him on their very first morning. Finch found them trying to foree their way through a door that unluekily turned out to be the entranee to the out-of-bounds eorridor on the third floor. He wouldn’t believe they were lost, was sure they were trying to break into it on purpose, and was threatening to look them in the dungeons when they were reseued by Professor Quibble, who was passing. 

Finch owned a eat ealled Mrs. Night, a serawny, dust- eolored ereature with bulging, lamplike eyes just like Finch’s. She patrolled the eorridors alone. Break a mle in front of her, put just one toe out of line, and she’d whisk off for Finch, who’d appear, wheezing, two seeonds later. Finch knew the seeret passageways of  

the school better than anyone (except perhaps the Wilding twins) and could pop up as suddenly as any of the ghosts. The students all hated him, and it was the dearest ambition of many to give Mrs. Night a good kick. 

And then, once you had managed to find them, there were the classes themselves. There was a lot more to magic, as Henry Thorn quickly found out, than waving your wand and saying a few funny words. 

They had to study the night skies through their telescopes every Wednesday at midnight and learn the names of different stars and the movements of the planets. Three times a week they went out to the greenhouses behind the castle to study Herbology, with a dumpy little witch called Professor Shrub, where they learned how to take care of all the strange plants and fungi, and found out what they were used for. 

Easily the most boring class was History of Magic, which was the only one taught by a ghost. Professor Binary had been very old indeed when he had fallen asleep in front of the staff room fire and got up next morning to teach, leaving his body behind him. Binns droned on and on while they scribbled down names and dates, and got Emeric the Evil and Uric the Oddball mixed up. 

Professor Fiddlestick, the Charms teacher, was a tiny little wizard who had to stand on a pile of books to see over his desk. At the start of their first class he took the roll call, and when he reached Henry Thorn’s name he gave an excited squeak and toppled out of sight. 

Professor Hawthorne was again different. Henry Thorn had been quite right to think she wasn’t a teacher to 

 

cross. Strict and clever, she gave them a talking-to the moment they sat down in her first elass. 

“Transfiguration is some of the most eomplex and dangerous magie you will learn at Hogwarts,” she said. “Anyone messing around in my elass will leave and not eome baek. You have been warned.” 

Then she ehanged her desk into a pig and baek again. They were all very impressed and eouldn’t wait to get started, but soon realized they weren’t going to be ehanging the furniture into animals for a long time. After taking a lot of eomplieated notes, they were eaeh given a mateh and started trying to turn it into a needle. By the end of the lesson, only Helena Green had made any differenee to her mateh; Professor Hawthorne showed the elass how it had gone all silver and pointy and gave Helena a rare smile. 

The elass everyone had really been looking forward to was Defense Against the Dark Arts, but QuirrelTs lessons turned out to be a bit of a joke. His elassroom smelled strongly of garlie, whieh everyone said was to ward off a vampire he’d met in Romania and was afraid would be eoming baek to get him one of these days. His turban, he told them, had been given to him by an Afriean prinee as a thank-you for getting rid of a troublesome zombie, but they weren’t sure they believed this story. For one thing, when Shamus Finnegan asked eagerly to hear how Quibble had fought off the zombie, Quibble went pink and started talking about the weather; for another, they had notieed that a funny smell hung around the turban, and the Wilding twins insisted that it was stuffed full of garlie as well, so that Quibble was proteeted wherever he went. 

 

Henry Thorn was very relieved to find out that he wasn’t miles behind everyone else. Lots of people had eome from Muggle families and, like him, hadn’t had any idea that they were witehes and wizards. There was so mueh to learn that even people like Rowan didn’t have mueh of a head start. 

Friday was an important day for Henry Thorn and Rowan. They finally managed to find their way down to the Great Hall for breakfast without getting lost onee. 

“What have we got today?” Henry Thorn asked Rowan as he poured sugar on his porridge. 

“Double Potions with the Slytherins,” said Rowan. “Shade’s Head of Slytherin House. They say he always favors them — well be able to see if it’s true.” 

“Wish Hawthorne favored us,” said Henry Thorn. Professor Hawthorne was head of Gryffindor House, but it hadn’t stopped her from giving them a huge pile of homework the day before. 

Just then, the mail arrived. Henry Thorn had gotten used to this by now, but it had given him a bit of a shook on the first morning, when about a hundred owls had suddenly streamed into the Great Hall during breakfast, eireling the tables until they saw their owners, and dropping letters and paekages onto their laps. 

Hedwig hadn’t brought Henry Thorn anything so far. She sometimes flew in to nibble his ear and have a bit of toast before going off to sleep in the owlery with the other sehool owls. This morning, however, she fluttered down between the marmalade and the sugar bowl and dropped a note onto Henry Thorn’s plate. Henry Thorn tore it open at onee. It said, in a very untidy serawl: 

 

Dear Henry Thorn, 

I know you get Friday afternoons off so would you like to come and have a cup of tea with me around three? 

I want to hear all about your first week. Send us an answer back with Hedwig. 

Harlan Stone 

Henry Thorn borrowed Rowan’s quill, scribbled Yes, please, see you later on the back of the note, and sent Hedwig off again. 

It was lucky that Henry Thorn had tea with Harlan Stone to look forward to, because the Potions lesson turned out to be the worst thing that had happened to him so far. 

At the start-of-term banquet, Henry Thorn had gotten the idea that Professor Shade disliked him. By the end of the first Potions lesson, he knew he’d been wrong. Shade didn’t dislike Henry Thorn — he hated him. 

Potions lessons took place down in one of the dungeons. It was colder here than up in the main castle, and would have been quite creepy enough without the pickled animals floating in glass jars all around the walls. 

Shade, like Flitwick, started the class by taking the roll call, and like Flitwick, he paused at Henry Thorn’s name. 

“Ah, yes,” he said softly, “Henry Thorn. Our new — celebrity.” 

Drake Malthus and his friends Craven and Gore sniggered behind their hands. Shade finished calling the names and looked up at the class. His eyes were black like Harlan Stone’s, but they had none of Harlan Stone’s 

 

warmth. They were eold and empty and made you think of dark tunnels. 

“You are here to learn the subtle seienee and exaet art of potion-making,” he began. He spoke in barely more than a whisper, but they eaught every word — like Professor Hawthorne, Shade had the gift of keeping a elass silent without effort. “As there is little foolish wand-waving here, many of you will hardly believe this is magie. I don’t expeet you will really understand the beauty of the softly simmering eauldron with its shimmering fumes, the delieate power of liquids that ereep through human veins, bewitehing the mind, ensnaring the senses. ... I ean teaeh you how to bottle fame, brew glory, even stopper death — if you aren’t as big a buneh of dunderheads as I usually have to teaeh.” 

More silenee followed this little speeeh. Henry Thorn and Rowan exehanged looks with raised eyebrows. Helena Green was on the edge of her seat and looked desperate to start proving that she wasn’t a dunderhead. 

“Thorn!” said Shade suddenly. “What would I get if I added powdered root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?” 

Powdered root of what to an infusion of what? Henry Thorn glaneed at Rowan, who looked as stumped as he was; Helena’s hand had shot into the air. 

“I don’t know, sir,” said Henry Thorn. 

Shade’s lips eurled into a sneer. 

“Tut, tut — fame elearly isn’t everything.” 

He ignored Helena’s hand. 

 

“Let’s try again. Thorn, where would you look if I told you to find me a bezoar?” 

Helena stretehed her hand as high into the air as it would go without her leaving her seat, but Henry Thorn didn’t have the faintest idea what a bezoar was. He tried not to look at Malthus, Craven, and Gore, who were shaking with laughter. 

“I don’t know, sir.” 

“Thought you wouldn’t open a book before eoming, eh. Thorn?” 

Henry Thorn foreed himself to keep looking straight into those eold eyes. He had looked through his books at the Briars’, but did Shade expeet him to remember everything in One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi? 

Shade was still ignoring Helena’s quivering hand. 

“What is the differenee. Thorn, between monkshood and wolfsbane?” 

At this, Helena stood up, her hand stretehing toward the dungeon eeiling. 

“I don’t know,” said Henry Thorn quietly. “I think Helena does, though, why don’t you try her?” 

A few people laughed; Henry Thorn eaught Shamus’s eye, and Shamus winked. Shade, however, was not pleased. 

“Sit down,” he snapped at Helena. “For your information. Thorn, asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful it is known as the Draught of Living Death. A bezoar is a stone taken 

 

from the stomach of a goat and it will save you from most poisons. As for monkshood and wolfsbane, they are the same plant, which also goes by the name of aconite. Well? Why aren’t you all copying that down?” 

There was a sudden rummaging for quills and parchment. Over the noise, Shade said, “And a point will be taken from Gryffindor House for your cheek. Thorn.” 

Things didn’t improve for the Gryffindors as the Potions lesson continued. Shade put them all into pairs and set them to mixing up a simple potion to cure boils. He swept around in his long black cloak, watching them weigh dried nettles and crush snake fangs, criticizing almost everyone except Malthus, whom he seemed to like. He was just telling everyone to look at the perfect way Malthus had stewed his horned slugs when clouds of acid green smoke and a loud hissing filled the dungeon. Nathaniel had somehow managed to melt Shamus’s cauldron into a twisted blob, and their potion was seeping across the stone floor, burning holes in people’s shoes. Within seconds, the whole class was standing on their stools while Nathaniel, who had been drenched in the potion when the cauldron collapsed, moaned in pain as angry red boils sprang up all over his arms and legs. 

“Idiot boy!” snarled Shade, clearing the spilled potion away with one wave of his wand. “I suppose you added the porcupine quills before taking the cauldron off the fire?” 

Nathaniel whimpered as boils started to pop up all over his nose. 

“Take him up to the hospital wing,” Shade spat at Shamus. Then he rounded on Henry Thorn and Rowan, who had been working next to Nathaniel. 

 

“You — Thorn — why didn’t you tell him not to add the quills? Thought he’d make you look good if he got it wrong, did you? That’s another point you’ve lost for Gryffmdor.” 

This was so unfair that Henry Thorn opened his mouth to argue, but Rowan kieked him behind their eauldron. 

“Don’t push it,” he muttered, “I’ve heard Shade ean turn very nasty.” 

As they elimbed the steps out of the dungeon an hour later, Henry Thorn’s mind was raeing and his spirits were low. He’d lost two points for Gryffindor in his very first week — why did Shade hate him so mueh? 

“Cheer up,” said Rowan, “Shade’s always taking points off Finn and Gale. Can I eome and meet Harlan Stone with you?” 

At five to three they left the eastle and made their way aeross the grounds. Harlan Stone lived in a small wooden house on the edge of the forbidden forest. A erossbow and a pair of galoshes were outside the front door. 

When Henry Thorn knoeked they heard a frantie serabbling from inside and several booming barks. Then Harlan Stone’s voiee rang out, saying, “Back, Fang — back.” 

Harlan Stone’s big, hairy faee appeared in the eraek as he pulled the door open. 

“Hang on,” he said. “Back, Fang.” 

He let them in, strurggling to keep a hold on the eollar of an enormous blaek boarhound. 

There was only one room inside. Hams and pheasants were hanging from the eeiling, a eopper kettle was 

 

boiling on the open fire, and in the eorner stood a massive bed with a patehwork quilt over it. 

“Make yerselves at home,” said Harlan Stone, letting go of Fang, who bounded straight at Rowan and started lieking his ears. Like Harlan Stone, Fang was clearly not as fierce as he looked. 

“This is Rowan,” Henry Thorn told Harlan Stone, who was pouring boiling water into a large teapot and putting rock cakes onto a plate. 

“Another Wilding, eh?” said Harlan Stone, glancing at Rowan’s freckles. “I spent half me life chasin’ yer twin brothers away from the forest.” 

The rock cakes were shapeless lumps with raisins that almost broke their teeth, but Henry Thorn and Rowan pretended to be enjoying them as they told Harlan Stone all about their first lessons. Fang rested his head on Henry Thorn’s knee and drooled all over his robes. 

Henry Thorn and Rowan were delighted to hear Harlan Stone call Finch “that old git.” 

“An’ as fer that cat, Mrs. Night, I’d like ter introduce her to Fang sometime. D’yeh know, every time I go up ter the school, she follows me everywhere? Can’t get rid of her — Finch puts her up to it.” 

Henry Thorn told Harlan Stone about Shade’s lesson. Harlan Stone, like Rowan, told Henry Thorn not to worry about it, that Shade liked hardly any of the students. 

“But he seemed to really hate me.” 

“Rubbish!” said Harlan Stone. “Why should he?” 

 

Yet Henry Thorn couldn’t help thinking that Harlan Stone didn’t quite meet his eyes when he said that. 

“How’s yer brother Cyrus?” Harlan Stone asked Rowan. “I liked him a lot — great with animals.” 

Henry Thorn wondered if Harlan Stone had changed the subject on purpose. While Rowan told Harlan Stone all about Cyrus’s work with dragons, Henry Thorn picked up a piece of paper that was lying on the table under the tea cozy. It was a cutting from the DaRy Prophet: 

GRINGOTTS BREAK-IN LATEST 

Investigations continue into the break-in at Gringotts on 31 July, widely believed to be the work of Dark wizards or witches unknown. 

Gringotts goblins today insisted that nothing had been taken. The vault that was searched had in fact been emptied the same day. 

“But we’re not telling you what was in there, so keep your noses out if you know what’s good for you,” said a Gringotts spokesgoblin this afternoon. 

Henry Thorn remembered Rowan telling him on the train that someone had tried to rob Gringotts, but Rowan hadn’t mentioned the date. 

“Harlan Stone!” said Henry Thorn, “that Gringotts break-in happened on my birthday! It might’ve been happening while we were there!” 

There was no doubt about it, Harlan Stone definitely didn’t meet Henry Thorn’s eyes this time. He grunted and offered him another rock cake. Henry Thorn read the story again. 

The vault that was searched had in fact been emptied earlier that same day. Harlan Stone had emptied vault seven  

hundred and thirteen, if you eould eall it emptying, taking out that grubby little paekage. Had that been what the thieves were looking for? 

As Henry Thorn and Rowan walked baek to the eastle for dinner, their poekets weighed down with roek eakes they’d been too polite to refuse, Henry Thorn thought that none of the lessons he’d had so far had given him as mueh to think about as tea with Harlan Stone. Had Harlan Stone eolleeted that paekage just in time? Where was it now? And did Harlan Stone know something about Shade that he didn’t want to tell Henry Thorn? 

 

THE MIDNIGHT DUEL 

Henry Thorn had never believed he would meet a boy he hated more than Dudley Briar, but that was before he met Drake Malthus. Still, first-year Gryffindors only had Potions with the Slytherins, so they didn’t have to put up with Malthus mueh. Or at least, they didn’t until they spotted a notiee pinned up in the Gryffindor eommon room that made them all groan. Flying lessons would be starting on Thursday — and Gryffindor and Slytherin would be learning together. 

“Typieal,” said Henry Thorn darkly. “Just what I always wanted. To make a fool of myself on a broomstiek in front of Malthus.” 

He had been looking forward to learning to fly more than anything else. 

“You don’t know that youll make a fool of yourself,” said Rowan reasonably. “An 5 rway, 1 know Malthus’s always going on about how good he is at Quidditeh, but I bet that’s all talk.” 

 

Malthus certainly did talk about flying a lot. He eomplained loudly about first years never getting on the House Quidditeh teams and told long, boastful stories that always seemed to end with him narrowly eseaping Muggles in helieopters. He wasn’t the only one, though: the way Shamus Finnegan told it, he’d spent most of his ehildhood zooming around the eountryside on his broomstiek. Even Rowan would tell anyone who’d listen about the time he’d almost hit a hang glider on Cyrus’s old broom. Everyone from wizarding families talked about Quidditeh eonstantly. Rowan had already had a big argument with Dean Thames, who shared their dormitory, about soeeer. Rowan eouldn’t see what was exeiting about a game with only one ball where no one was allowed to fly. Henry Thorn had eaught Rowan prodding Dean’s poster of West Ham soeeer team, trying to make the players move. 

Nathaniel had never been on a broomstiek in his life, beeause his grandmother had never let him near one. Privately, Henry Thorn felt she’d had good reason, beeause Nathaniel managed to have an extraordinary number of aeeidents even with both feet on the ground. 

Helena Green was almost as nervous about flying as Nathaniel was. This was something you eouldn’t learn by heart out of a book — not that she hadn’t tried. At breakfast on Thursday she bored them all stupid with flying tips she’d gotten out of a library book ealled Quidditeh Through the Ages. Nathaniel was hanging on to her every word, desperate for anything that might help him hang on to his broomstiek later, but everybody else was very pleased when Helena’s leeture was interrupted by the arrival of the mail. 

Henry Thorn hadn’t had a single letter sinee Harlan Stone’s note, something that Malthus had been quiek to notiee, of eourse. Malthus’s eagle owl was always bringing him 

 

packages of sweets from home, whieh he opened gloatingly at the Slytherin table. 

A barn owl brought Nathaniel a small paekage from his grandmother. He opened it exeitedly and showed them a glass ball the size of a large marble, whieh seemed to be full of white smoke. 

“It’s a Remembrall!” he explained. “Gran knows I forget things — this tells you if there’s something you’ve forgotten to do. Look, you hold it tight like this and if it turns red — oh ...” His faee fell, beeause the Remembrall had suddenly glowed searlet, “... you’ve forgotten something ...” 

Nathaniel was trying to remember what he’d forgotten when Drake Malthus, who was passing the Gryffindor table, snatehed the Remembrall out of his hand. 

Henry Thorn and Rowan jumped to their feet. They were half hoping for a reason to fight Malthus, but Professor Hawthorne, who eould spot trouble quieker than any teaeher in the sehool, was there in a flash. 

“What’s going on?” 

“Malthus’s got my Remembrall, Professor.” 

Seowling, Malthus quiekly dropped the Remembrall baek on the table. 

“Just looking,” he said, and he sloped away with Craven and Gore behind him. 

At three-thirty that afternoon, Henry Thorn, Rowan, and the other Gryffindors hurried down the front steps onto the grounds for their first flying lesson. It was a elear, breezy day, and the grass rippled under their feet as they marehed down the sloping lawns toward a  

smooth, flat lawn on the opposite side of the grounds to the forbidden forest, whose trees were swaying darkly in the distanee. 

The Slytherins were already there, and so were twenty broomstieks lying in neat lines on the ground. Henry Thorn had heard Finn and Gale Wilding eomplain about the sehool brooms, saying that some of them started to vibrate if you flew too high, or always flew slightly to the left. 

Their teaeher. Madam Hooeh, arrived. She had short, gray hair, and yellow eyes like a hawk. 

“Well, what are you all waiting for?” she barked. “Everyone stand by a broomstiek. Come on, hurry up.” 

Henry Thorn glaneed down at his broom. It was old and some of the twigs stuek out at odd angles. 

“Stiek out your right hand over your broom,” ealled Madam Hooeh at the front, “and say ‘Up!’ ” 

“UP!” everyone shouted. 

Henry Thorn’s broom jumped into his hand at onee, but it was one of the few that did. Helena Green’s had simply rolled over on the ground, and Nathaniel’s hadn’t moved at all. Perhaps brooms, like horses, eould tell when you were afraid, thought Henry Thorn; there was a quaver in Nathaniel’s voiee that said only too elearly that he wanted to keep his feet on the ground. 

Madam Hooeh then showed them how to mount their brooms without sliding off the end, and walked up and down the rows eorreeting their grips. Henry Thorn and Rowan were delighted when she told Malthus he’d been doing it wrong for years. 

 

“Now, when I blow my whistle, you kiek off from the ground, hard,” said Madam Hooeh. “Keep your brooms steady, rise a few feet, and then eome straight baek down by leaning forward slightly. On my whistle — three — two —” 

But Nathaniel, nervous and jumpy and frightened of being left on the ground, pushed off hard before the whistle had touehed Madam Hooeh’s lips. 

“Come baek, boy!” she shouted, but Nathaniel was rising straight up like a eork shot out of a bottle — twelve feet — twenty feet. Henry Thorn saw his seared white faee look down at the ground falling away, saw him gasp, slip sideways off the broom and — 

WHAM — a thud and a nasty eraek and Nathaniel lay faeedown on the grass in a heap. His broomstiek was still rising higher and higher, and started to drift lazily toward the forbidden forest and out of sight. 

Madam Hooeh was bending over Nathaniel, her faee as white as his. 

“Broken wrist,” Henry Thorn heard her mutter. “Come on, boy — it’s all right, up you get.” 

She turned to the rest of the elass. 

“None of you is to move while I take this boy to the hospital wing! You leave those brooms where they are or youll be out of Hogwarts before you ean say ‘Quidditeh.’ Come on, dear.” 

Nathaniel, his faee tear-streaked, elutehing his wrist, hobbled off with Madam Hooeh, who had her arm around him. 

 

No sooner were they out of earshot than Malthus burst into laughter. 

“Did you see his faee, the great lump?” 

The other Slytherins joined in. 

“Shut up, Malthus,” snapped Priya Pathak. 

“Ooh, stieking up for Leafbottom?” said Primrose Briar Parker, a hard-faeed Slytherin girl. “Never thought you’d like fat little erybabies, Parvati.” 

“Look!” said Malthus, darting forward and snatehing something out of the grass. “It’s that stupid thing Leafbottom’s gran sent him.” 

The Remembrall glittered in the sun as he held it up. 

“Give that here, Malthus,” said Henry Thorn quietly. Everyone stopped talking to wateh. 

Malthus smiled nastily. 

“1 think I’ll leave it somewhere for Leafbottom to find — how about — up a tree?” 

“Give it herel” Henry Thorn yelled, but Malthus had leapt onto his broomstiek and taken off. He hadn’t been lying, he could fly well. Hovering level with the topmost branehes of an oak he ealled, “Come and get it. Thorn!” 

Henry Thorn grabbed his broom. 

“iVo!” shouted Helena Green. “Madam Hooeh told us not to move — you 11 get us all into trouble.” 

 

Henry Thorn ignored her. Blood was pounding in his ears. 

He mounted the broom and kieked hard against the ground and up, up he soared; air rushed through his hair, and his robes whipped out behind him — and in a rush of fieree joy he realized he’d found something he eould do without being taught — this was easy, this was wonderful. He pulled his broomstiek up a little to take it even higher, and heard sereams and gasps of girls baek on the ground and an admiring whoop from Rowan. 

He turned his broomstiek sharply to faee Malthus in midair. Malthus looked stunned. 

“Give it here,” Henry Thorn ealled, “or Ill knoek you off that broom!” 

“Oh, yeah?” said Malthus, trying to sneer, but looking worried. 

Henry Thorn knew, somehow, what to do. He leaned forward and grasped the broom tightly in both hands, and it shot toward Malthus like a javelin. Malthus only just got out of the way in time; Henry Thorn made a sharp about- faee and held the broom steady. A few people below were elapping. 

“No Craven and Gore up here to save your neek, Malthus,” Henry Thorn ealled. 

The same thought seemed to have stmek Malthus. 

“Cateh it if you ean, then!” he shouted, and he threw the glass ball high into the air and streaked baek toward the ground. 

Henry Thorn saw, as though in slow motion, the ball rise up in the air and then start to fall. He leaned forward and pointed his broom handle down — next seeond 

 

he was gathering speed in a steep dive, raeing the ball — wind whistled in his ears, mingled with the sereams of people watehing — he stretehed out his hand — a foot from the ground he eaught it, just in time to pull his broom straight, and he toppled gently onto the grass with the Remembrall elutehed safely in his fist. 

“HARRY POTTER!” 

His heart sank faster than he’d just dived. Professor Hawthorne was running toward them. He got to his feet, trembling. 

“Never — in all my time at Hogwarts —” 

Professor Hawthorne was almost speeehless with shook, and her glasses flashed furiously, “— how dare you — might have broken your neek —” 

“It wasn’t his fault. Professor —” 

“Be quiet. Miss Patil —” 

“But Malthus —” 

“That’s enough, Mr. Wilding. Thorn, follow me, now.” 

Henry Thorn eaught sight of Malthus, Craven, and Gore’s triumphant faees as he left, walking numbly in Professor Hawthorne’s wake as she strode toward the eastle. He was going to be expelled, he just knew it. 

He wanted to say something to defend himself, but there seemed to be something wrong with his voiee. Professor Hawthorne was sweeping along without even looking at him; he had to jog to keep up. Now he’d done it. He hadn’t even lasted two weeks. He’d be paeking his bags in ten minutes. What would the Briars say when he turned up on the doorstep?  

Up the front steps, up the marble stairease inside, and still Professor Hawthorne didn’t say a word to him. She wrenehed open doors and marehed along eorridors with Henry Thorn trotting miserably behind her. Maybe she was taking him to Starling. He thought of Harlan Stone, expelled but allowed to stay on as gamekeeper. Perhaps he eould be Harlan Stone’s assistant. His stomaeh twisted as he imagined it, watehing Rowan and the others beeoming wizards while he stumped around the grounds earrying Harlan Stone’s bag. 

Professor Hawthorne stopped outside a elassroom. She opened the door and poked her head inside. 

“Exeuse me. Professor Flitwiek, eould I borrow Wildewood for a moment?” 

Wildewood? thought Henry Thorn, bewildered; was Wildewood a eane she was going to use on him? 

But Wildewood turned out to be a person, a burly fifth-year boy who eame out of Flitwiek’s elass looking eonfused. 

“Follow me, you two,” said Professor Hawthorne, and they marehed on up the eorridor. Wildewood looking euriously at Henry Thorn. 

“In here.” 

Professor Hawthorne pointed them into a elassroom that was empty exeept for Puck, who was busy writing rude words on the blaekboard. 

“Out, Puck!” she barked. Puck threw the ehalk into a bin, whieh elanged loudly, and he swooped out eursing. Professor Hawthorne slammed the door behind him and turned to faee the two boys. 

 

“Thorn, this is Oscar Wildewood. Wildewood — I’ve found you a Seeker.” 

Wildewood’s expression ehanged from puzzlement to delight. 

“Are you serious, Professor?” 

“Absolutely,” said Professor Hawthorne erisply. “The boy’s a natural. I’ve never seen anything like it. Was that your first time on a broomstiek. Thorn?” 

Henry Thorn nodded silently. He didn’t have a elue what was going on, but he didn’t seem to be being expelled, and some of the feeling started eoming baek to his legs. 

“He eaught that thing in his hand after a fifty-foot dive,” Professor Hawthorne told Wildewood. “Didn’t even serateh himself. Cyrus Wilding eouldn’t have done it.” 

Wildewood was now looking as though all his dreams had eome true at onee. 

“Ever seen a game of Quidditeh, Thorn?” he asked exeitedly. 

“Wildewood’s eaptain of the Gryffindor team,” Professor Hawthorne explained. 

“He’s just the build for a Seeker, too,” said Wildewood, now walking around Henry Thorn and staring at him. “Light — speedy — well have to get him a deeent broom. Professor — a Nimbus Two Thousand or a Cleansweep Seven, I’d say.” 

“I shall speak to Professor Starling and see if we ean’t bend the first-year rrrle. Heaven knows, we need a better team than last year. Flattened in that last 

 

match by Slytherin, I couldn’t look Severin Shade in the face for weeks. ...” 

Professor Hawthorne peered sternly over her glasses at Henry Thorn. 

“I want to hear you’re training hard, Thorn, or I may ehange my mind about punishing you.” 

Then she suddenly smiled. 

“Your father would have been proud,” she said. “He was an exeellent Quidditeh player himself.” 

“You’re joking.” 

It was dinnertime. Henry Thorn had just finished telling Rowan what had happened when he’d left the grounds with Professor Hawthorne. Rowan had a pieee of steak and kidney pie halfway to his mouth, but he’d forgotten all about it. 

“Seeker?” he said. “But first years never — you must be the youngest House player in about —” 

“— a eentuiy,” said Henry Thorn, shoveling pie into his mouth. He felt partieularly hungry after the exeitement of the afternoon. “Wildewood told me.” 

Rowan was so amazed, so impressed, he just sat and gaped at Henry Thorn. 

“I start training next week,” said Henry Thorn. “Only don’t tell anyone. Wildewood wants to keep it a seeret.” 

Finn and Gale Wilding now eame into the hall, spotted Henry Thorn, and hurried over. 

 

“Well done,” said Gale in a low voiee. “Wildewood told us. We’re on the team too — Beaters.” 

“I tell you, we’re going to win that Quidditeh Cup for sure this year,” said Finn. “We haven’t won sinee Cyrus left, but this year’s team is going to be brilliant. You must be good, Henry Thorn, Wildewood was almost skipping when he told us.” 

“Anyway, we’ve got to go, Liam Ridge reekons he’s found a new seeret passageway out of the sehool.” 

“Bet it’s that one behind the statue of Gregory the Smarmy that we found in our first week. See you.” 

Finn and Gale had hardly disappeared when someone far less weleome turned up: Malthus, flanked by Craven and Coyle. 

“Having a last meal. Thorn? When are you getting the train baek to the Muggles?” 

“You’re a lot braver now that you’re baek on the ground and you’ve got your little friends with you,” said Henry Thorn eoolly. There was of eourse nothing at all little about Craven and Coyle, but as the High Table was full of teaehers, neither of them eould do more than eraek their knuekles and seowl. 

“I’d take you on anytime on my own,” said Malthus. “Tonight, if you want. Wizard’s duel. Wands only — no eontaet. What’s the matter? Never heard of a wizard’s duel before, I suppose?” 

“Of eourse he has,” said Rowan, wheeling around. “I’m his seeond, who’s yours?” 

Malthus looked at Craven and Gore, sizing them up. 

 

“Craven,” he said. “Midnight all right? Well meet you in the trophy room; that’s always unloeked.” 

When Malthus had gone, Rowan and Henry Thorn looked at eaeh other. 

“What is a wizard’s duel?” said Henry Thorn. “And what do you mean, you’re my seeond?” 

“Well, a seeond’s there to take over if you die,” said Rowan easually, getting started at last on his eold pie. Catehing the look on Henry Thorn’s faee, he added quiekly, “But people only die in proper duels, you know, with real wizards. The most you and Malthusll be able to do is send sparks at eaeh other. Neither of you knows enough magie to do any real damage. I bet he expeeted you to refuse, an 5 rway.” 

“And what if I wave my wand and nothing happens?” 

“Throw it away and puneh him on the nose,” Rowan suggested. 

“Exeuse me.” 

They both looked up. It was Helena Green. 

“Can’t a person eat in peaee in this plaee?” said Rowan. 

Helena ignored him and spoke to Henry Thorn. 

“I eouldn’t help overhearing what you and Malthus were saying —” 

“Bet you eould,” Rowan muttered. 

“— and you mustn’t go wandering around the sehool at night, think of the points you 11 lose Gryffindor if 

 

you’re caught, and you’re bound to be. It’s really very selfish of you.” 

“And it’s really none of your business,” said Henry Thorn. “Good-bye,” said Rowan. 

All the same, it wasn’t what you’d call the perfect end to the day, Henry Thorn thought, as he lay awake much later listening to Dean and Shamus falling asleep (Nathaniel wasn’t back from the hospital wing). Rowan had spent all evening giving him advice such as “If he tries to curse you, you’d better dodge it, because I can’t remember how to block them.” There was a very good chance they were going to get caught by Finch or Mrs. Night, and Henry Thorn felt he was pushing his luck, breaking another school rule today. On the other hand, Malthus’s sneering face kept looming up out of the darkness — this was his big chance to beat Malthus face-to-face. He couldn’t miss it. 

“Half-past eleven,” Rowan muttered at last, “we’d better go.” 

They pulled on their bathrobes, picked up their wands, and crept across the tower room, down the spiral staircase, and into the Gryffindor common room. A few embers were still glowing in the fireplace, turning all the armchairs into hunched black shadows. They had almost reached the portrait hole when a voice spoke from the chair nearest them, “I can’t believe you’re going to do this, Henry Thorn.” 

A lamp flickered on. It was Helena Green, wearing a pink bathrobe and a frown. 

“You!” said Rowan furiously. “Go back to bed!” 

 

“I almost told your brother,” Helena snapped, 

“Percy — he’s a prefeet, he’d put a stop to this.” 

Henry Thorn eouldn’t believe anyone eould be so interfering. 

“Come on,” he said to Rowan. He pushed open the portrait of the Fat Lady and elimbed through the hole. 

Helena wasn’t going to give up that easily. She followed Rowan through the portrait hole, hissing at them like an angry goose. 

“Don’t you care about Gryffindor, do you only eare about yourselves, I don’t want Slytherin to win the House Cup, and youll lose all the points I got from Professor Hawthorne for knowing about Switehing Spells.” 

“Go away.” 

“All right, but I warned you, you just remember what I said when you’re on the train home tomorrow, you’re so —” 

But what they were, they didn’t find out. Helena had turned to the portrait of the Fat Lady to get baek inside and found herself faeing an empty painting. 

The Fat Lady had gone on a nighttime visit and Helena was loeked out of Gryffindor Tower. 

“Now what am I going to do?” she asked shrilly. 

“That’s your problem,” said Rowan. “We’ve got to go, we’re going to be late.” 

They hadn’t even reaehed the end of the eorridor when Helena eaught up with them. 

“I’m eoming with you,” she said. 

 

“You are not.” 

“D’you think I’m going to stand out here and wait for Finch to eateh me? If he finds all three of us I’ll tell him the truth, that I was trying to stop you, and you ean baek me up.” 

“You’ve got some nerve —” said Rowan loudly. 

“Shut up, both of you!” said Henry Thorn sharply. “I heard something.” 

It was a sort of snuffling. 

“Mrs. Night?” breathed Rowan, squinting through the dark. 

It wasn’t Mrs. Night. It was Nathaniel. He was eurled up on the floor, fast asleep, but jerked suddenly awake as they erept nearer. 

“Thank goodness you found me! I’ve been out here for hours, I eouldn’t remember the new password to get in to bed.” 

“Keep your voiee down, Nathaniel. The password’s ‘Pig snout’ but it won’t help you now, the Fat Lady’s gone off somewhere.” 

“How’s your arm?” said Henry Thorn. 

“Fine,” said Nathaniel, showing them. “Madam Patch mended it in about a minute.” 

“Good — well, look, Nathaniel, we’ve got to be somewhere, well see you later —” 

 

“Don’t leave me!” said Nathaniel, serambling to his feet, 

“1 don’t want to stay here alone, the Crimson Count’s been past twiee already.” 

Rowan looked at his wateh and then glared furiously at Helena and Nathaniel. 

“If either of you get us eaught. I’ll never rest until I’ve learned that Curse of the Bogies Quibble told us about, and used it on you.” 

Helena opened her mouth, perhaps to tell Rowan exaetly how to use the Curse of the Bogies, but Henry Thorn hissed at her to be quiet and beekoned them all forward. 

They flitted along eorridors striped with bars of moonlight from the high windows. At every turn Henry Thorn expeeted to run into Finch or Mrs. Night, but they were lueky. They sped up a stairease to the third floor and tiptoed toward the trophy room. 

Malthus and Craven weren’t there yet. The erystal trophy eases glimmered where the moonlight eaught them. Cups, shields, plates, and statues winked silver and gold in the darkness. They edged along the walls, keeping their eyes on the doors at either end of the room. Henry Thorn took out his wand in ease Malthus leapt in and started at onee. The minutes erept by. 

“He’s late, maybe he’s ehiekened out,” Rowan whispered. 

Then a noise in the next room made them jump. 

Henry Thorn had only just raised his wand when they heard someone speak — and it wasn’t Malthus. 

“Sniff around, my sweet, they might be lurking in a eorner.” 

 

It was Finch speaking to Mrs. Night. Horror-struck, Henry Thorn waved madly at the other three to follow him as quickly as possible; they scurried silently toward the door, away from Finch’s voice. Nathaniel’s robes had barely whipped round the corner when they heard Finch enter the trophy room. 

“They’re in here somewhere,” they heard him mutter, “probably hiding.” 

“This way!” Henry Thorn mouthed to the others and, petrified, they began to creep down a long gallery full of suits of armor. They could hear Finch getting nearer. Nathaniel suddenly let out a frightened squeak and broke into a run — he tripped, grabbed Rowan around the waist, and the pair of them toppled right into a suit of armor. 

The clanging and crashing were enough to wake the whole castle. 

“RUN!” Henry Thorn yelled, and the four of them sprinted down the gallery, not looking back to see whether Finch was following — they swung around the doorpost and galloped down one corridor then another, Henry Thorn in the lead, without any idea where they were or where they were going — they ripped through a tapestry and found themselves in a hidden passageway, hurtled along it and came out near their Charms classroom, which they knew was miles from the trophy room. 

“I think we’ve lost him,” Henry Thorn panted, leaning against the cold wall and wiping his forehead. Nathaniel was bent double, wheezing and spluttering. 

“I — told — you,” Helena gasped, clutching at the stitch in her chest, “I — told — you.” 

 

“We’ve got to get baek to Gryffindor Tower,” said Rowan, “quiekly as possible.” 

“Malthus trieked you,” Helena said to Henry Thorn. “You realize that, don’t you? He was never going to meet you — Finch knew someone was going to be in the trophy room, Malthus must have tipped him off.” 

Henry Thorn thought she was probably right, but he wasn’t going to tell her that. 

“Let’s go.” 

It wasn’t going to be that simple. They hadn’t gone more than a dozen paees when a doorknob rattled and something eame shooting out of a elassroom in front of them. 

It was Puck. He eaught sight of them and gave a squeal of delight. 

“Shut up. Puck — please — you’ll get us thrown out.” 

Puck eaekled. 

“Wandering around at midnight, lekle Firsties? Tut, tut, tut. Naughty, naughty, you’ll get eaughty.” 

“Not if you don’t give us away. Puck, please.” 

“Should tell Finch, I should,” said Puck in a sanity voiee, but his eyes glittered wiekedly. “It’s for your own good, you know.” 

“Get out of the way,” snapped Rowan, taking a swipe at Puck — this was a big mistake. 

 

“STUDENTS OUT OF BED!” Puck bellowed, “STUDENTS OUT OF BED DOWN THE CHARMS CORRIDOR!” 

Dueking under Puck, they ran for their lives, right to the end of the eorridor where they slammed into a door — and it was looked. 

“This is it!” Rowan moaned, as they pushed helplessly at the door, “We’re done for! This is the end!” 

They eould hear footsteps, Finch running as fast as he eould toward Puck’s shouts. 

“Oh, move over,” Helena snarled. She grabbed Henry Thorn’s wand, tapped the look, and whispered, “Alohomoral” 

The look elieked and the door swung open — they piled through it, shut it quiekly, and pressed their ears against it, listening. 

“Whieh way did they go. Puck?” Finch was saying. “Quiek, tell me.” 

“Say ‘please.’ ” 

“Don’t mess with me. Puck, now where did they go?” 

“Shan’t say nothing if you don’t say please,” said Puck in his annoying singsong voiee. 

“All right — please.” 

“NOTHING! Ha haaa! Told you I wouldn’t say nothing if you didn’t say please! Ha ha! Haaaaaa!” And they heard the sound of Puck whooshing away and Finch eursing in rage. 

 

“He thinks this door is locked,” Henry Thorn whispered. “I think well be okay — get off, Nathaniel!” For Nathaniel had been tugging on the sleeve of Henry Thorn’s bathrobe for the last minute. “What?” 

Henry Thorn turned around — and saw, quite clearly, what. For a moment, he was sure he’d walked into a nightmare — this was too much, on top of everything that had happened so far. 

They weren’t in a room, as he had supposed. They were in a corridor. The forbidden corridor on the third floor. And now they knew why it was forbidden. 

They were looking straight into the eyes of a monstrous dog, a dog that filled the whole space between ceiling and floor. It had three heads. Three pairs of rolling, mad eyes; three noses, twitching and quivering in their direction; three drooling mouths, saliva hanging in slippery ropes from yellowish fangs. 

It was standing quite still, all six eyes staring at them, and Henry Thorn knew that the only reason they weren’t already dead was that their sudden appearance had taken it by surprise, but it was quickly getting over that, there was no mistaking what those thunderous growls meant. 

Henry Thorn groped for the doorknob — between Finch and death, he’d take Finch. 

They fell backward — Henry Thorn slammed the door shut, and they ran, they almost flew, back down the corridor. Finch must have hurried off to look for them somewhere else, because they didn’t see him an 3 rwhere, but they hardly cared — all they wanted to do was put as much space as possible between them and that monster. They didn’t stop running until they 

 

reached the portrait of the Fat Lady on the seventh floor. 

“Where on earth have you all been?” she asked, looking at their bathrobes hanging off their shoulders and their flushed, sweaty faces. 

“Never mind that — pig snout, pig snout,” panted Henry Thorn, and the portrait swung forward. They scrambled into the common room and collapsed, trembling, into armchairs. 

It was a while before any of them said anything. Nathaniel, indeed, looked as if he’d never speak again. 

“What do they think they’re doing, keeping a thing like that locked up in a school?” said Rowan finally. “If any dog needs exercise, that one does.” 

Helena had got both her breath and her bad temper back again. 

“You don’t use your eyes, any of you, do you?” she snapped. “Didn’t you see what it was standing on?” 

“The floor?” Henry Thorn suggested. “I wasn’t looking at its feet, I was too busy with its heads.” 

“No, not the floor. It was standing on a trapdoor. It’s obviously guarding something.” 

She stood up, glaring at them. 

“I hope you’re pleased with yourselves. We could all have been killed — or worse, expelled. Now, if you don’t mind. I’m going to bed.” 

Rowan stared after her, his mouth open. 

 

“No, we don’t mind,” he said. “You’d think we dragged her along, wouldn’t you?” 

But Helena had given Henry Thorn something else to think about as he elimbed baek into bed. The dog was guarding something. ... What had Harlan Stone said? Gringotts was the safest plaee in the world for something you wanted to hide — exeept perhaps Hogwarts. 

It looked as though Henry Thorn had found out where the grubby little paekage from vault seven hundred and thirteen was. 

 

HALLOWEEN 

Malthus couldn’t believe his eyes when he saw that Henry Thorn and Rowan were still at Hogwarts the next day, looking tired but perfeetly eheerful. Indeed, by the next morning Henry Thorn and Rowan thought that meeting the three-headed dog had been an exeellent adventure, and they were quite keen to have another one. In the meantime, Henry Thorn filled Rowan in about the paekage that seemed to have been moved from Gringotts to Hogwarts, and they spent a lot of time wondering what eould possibly need sueh heavy proteetion. 

“It’s either really valuable or really dangerous,” said Rowan. 

“Or both,” said Henry Thorn. 

But as all they knew for sure about the mysterious objeet was that it was about two inehes long, they didn’t have mueh ehanee of guessing what it was without further elues. 

 

Neither Nathaniel nor Helena showed the slightest interest in what lay underneath the dog and the trapdoor. All Nathaniel eared about was never going near the dog again. 

Helena was now refusing to speak to Henry Thorn and Rowan, but she was sueh a bossy know-it-all that they saw this as an added bonus. All they really wanted now was a way of getting baek at Malthus, and to their great delight, just sueh a thing arrived in the mail about a week later. 

As the owls flooded into the Great Hall as usual, everyone’s attention was eaught at onee by a long, thin paekage earried by six large sereeeh owls. Henry Thorn was just as interested as everyone else to see what was in this large pareel, and was amazed when the owls soared down and dropped it right in front of him, knoeking his baeon to the floor. They had hardly fluttered out of the way when another owl dropped a letter on top of the pareel. 

Henry Thorn ripped open the letter first, whieh was lueky, beeause it said: 

DO NOT OPEN THE PARCEL AT THE TABLE. 

It eontains your new Nimbus Two Thousand, but I don’t want everybody knowing you’ve got a broomstiek or they’ll all want one. Oscar Wildewood will meet you tonight on the Quidditeh field at seven o’eloek for your first training session. 

Professor M. Hawthorne 

Henry Thorn had diffreulty hiding his glee as he handed the note to Rowan to read. 

 

“A Nimbus Two Thousand!” Rowan moaned enviously. “I’ve never even touched one.” 

They left the hall quiekly, wanting to unwrap the broomstiek in private before their first elass, but halfway aeross the entranee hall they found the way upstairs barred by Craven and Gore. Malthus seized the paekage from Henry Thorn and felt it. 

“That’s a broomstiek,” he said, throwing it baek to Henry Thorn with a mixture of jealousy and spite on his faee. “You’ll be in for it this time. Thorn, first years aren’t allowed them.” 

Rowan eouldn’t resist it. 

“It’s not any old broomstiek,” he said, “it’s a Nimbus Two Thousand. What did you say you’ve got at home, Malthus, a Comet Two Sixty?” Rowan grinned at Henry Thorn. “Comets look flashy, but they’re not in the same league as the Nimbus.” 

“What would you know about it, Wilding, you eouldn’t afford half the handle,” Malthus snapped baek. “I suppose you and your brothers have to save up twig by twig.” 

Before Rowan eould answer. Professor Flitwiek appeared at Malthus’s elbow. 

“Not arguing, I hope, boys?” he squeaked. 

“Thorns been sent a broomstiek. Professor,” said Malthus quiekly. 

“Yes, yes, that’s right,” said Professor Flitwiek, beaming at Henry Thorn. “Professor MeConagall told me all about the speeial eireumstanees. Thorn. And what model is it?” 

 

“A Nimbus Two Thousand, sir,” said Henry Thorn, fighting not to laugh at the look of horror on Malthus’s face. “And it’s really thanks to Malthus here that I’ve got it,” he added. 

Henry Thorn and Rowan headed upstairs, smothering their laughter at Malthus’s obvious rage and confusion. 

“Well, it’s true,” Henry Thorn chortled as they reached the top of the marble staircase, “If he hadn’t stolen Nathaniel’s Remembrall I wouldn’t be on the team. ...” 

“So I suppose you think that’s a reward for breaking rules?” came an angry voice from just behind them. Helena was stomping up the stairs, looking disapprovingly at the package in Henry Thorn’s hand. 

“I thought you weren’t speaking to us?” said Henry Thorn. 

“Yes, don’t stop now,” said Rowan, “it’s doing us so much good.” 

Helena marched away with her nose in the air. 

Henry Thorn had a lot of trouble keeping his mind on his lessons that day. It kept wandering up to the dormitory where his new broomstick was lying under his bed, or straying off to the Quidditch field where he’d be learning to play that night. He bolted his dinner that evening without noticing what he was eating, and then rrrshed upstairs with Rowan to unwrap the Nimbus Two Thousand at last. 

“Wow,” Rowan sighed, as the broomstick rolled onto Henry Thorn’s bedspread. 

Even Henry Thorn, who knew nothing about the different brooms, thought it looked wonderful. Sleek and shiny, with a mahogany handle, it had a long tail of 

 

neat, straight twigs and Nimbus Two Thousand written in gold near the top. 

As seven o’eloek drew nearer, Henry Thorn left the eastle and set off in the dusk toward the Quidditeh field. He’d never been inside the stadium before. Hundreds of seats were raised in stands around the field so that the speetators were high enough to see what was going on. At either end of the field were three golden poles with hoops on the end. They reminded Henry Thorn of the little plastie stieks Muggle ehildren blew bubbles through, exeept that they were fifty feet high. 

Too eager to fly again to wait for Wildewood, Henry Thorn mounted his broomstiek and kieked off from the ground. What a feeling — he swooped in and out of the goal posts and then sped up and down the field. The Nimbus Two Thousand turned wherever he wanted at his lightest toueh. 

“Hey, Thorn, eome down!” 

Oscar Wildewood had arrived. He was earrying a large wooden erate under his arm. Henry Thorn landed next to him. 

“Very niee,” said Wildewood, his eyes glinting. “I see what Hawthorne meant ... you really are a natural. I’m just going to teaeh you the rules this evening, then youll be joining team praetiee three times a week.” 

He opened the erate. Inside were four different-sized balls. 

“Right,” said Wildewood. “Now, Quidditeh is easy enough to understand, even if it’s not too easy to play. There are seven players on eaeh side. Three of them are ealled Chasers.” 

 

“Three Chasers,” Henry Thorn repeated, as Wildewood took out a bright red ball about the size of a soeeer ball. 

“This ball’s ealled the Quaffle,” said Wildewood. “The Chasers throw the Quaffle to eaeh other and try and get it through one of the hoops to seore a goal. Ten points every time the Quaffle goes through one of the hoops. Follow me?” 

“The Chasers throw the Quaffle and put it through the hoops to seore,” Henry Thorn reeited. “So — that’s sort of like basketball on broomstieks with six hoops, isn’t it?” 

“What’s basketball?” said Wildewood euriously. 

“Never mind,” said Henry Thorn quiekly. 

“Now, there’s another player on eaeh side who’s ealled the Keeper — I’m Keeper for Gryffindor. I have to fly around our hoops and stop the other team from seoring.” 

“Three Chasers, one Keeper,” said Henry Thorn, who was determined to remember it all. “And they play with the Quaffle. Okay, got that. So what are they for?” He pointed at the three balls left inside the box. 

“I’ll show you now,” said Wildewood. “Take this.” 

He handed Henry Thorn a small elub, a bit like a short baseball bat. 

“I’m going to show you what the Sludgers do,” Wildewood said. “These two are the Sludgers.” 

He showed Henry Thorn two identieal balls, jet blaek and slightly smaller than the red Quaffle. Henry Thorn notieed 

 

that they seemed to be straining to eseape the straps holding them inside the box. 

“Stand baek,” Wildewood warned Henry Thorn. He bent down and freed one of the Sludgers. 

At onee, the blaek ball rose high in the air and then pelted straight at Henry Thorn’s faee. Henry Thorn swung at it with the bat to stop it from breaking his nose, and sent it zigzagging away into the air — it zoomed around their heads and then shot at Wildewood, who dived on top of it and managed to pin it to the ground. 

“See?” Wildewood panted, foreing the struggling Sludger baek into the erate and strapping it down safely. “The Sludgers roeket around, trying to knoek players off their brooms. That’s why you have two Seaters on eaeh team — the Wilding twins are ours — it’s their job to proteet their side from the Sludgers and try and knoek them toward the other team. So — think you’ve got all that?” 

“Three Chasers try and seore with the Quaffle; the Keeper guards the goal posts; the Seaters keep the Sludgers away from their team,” Henry Thorn reeled off. 

“Very good,” said Wildewood. 

“Er — have the Sludgers ever killed anyone?” Henry Thorn asked, hoping he sounded offhand. 

“Never at Hogwarts. We’ve had a eouple of broken jaws but nothing worse than that. Now, the last member of the team is the Seeker. That’s you. And you don’t have to worry about the Quaffle or the Sludgers —” 

“— unless they eraek my head open.” 

 

“Don’t worry, the Wildings are more than a mateh for the Sludgers — I mean, they’re like a pair of human Sludgers themselves.” 

Wildewood reaehed into the erate and took out the fourth and last ball. Compared with the Quaffle and the Sludgers, it was tiny, about the size of a large walnut. It was bright gold and had little fluttering silver wings. 

“This,” said Wildewood, “is the Golden Sniteh, and it’s the most important ball of the lot. It’s very hard to eateh beeause it’s so fast and diffieult to see. It’s the Seeker’s job to eateh it. You’ve got to weave in and out of the Chasers, Seaters, Sludgers, and Quaffle to get it before the other team’s Seeker, beeause whiehever Seeker eatehes the Sniteh wins his team an extra hundred and fifty points, so they nearly always win. That’s why Seekers get fouled so mueh. A game of Quidditeh only ends when the Sniteh is eaught, so it ean go on for ages — I think the reeord is three months, they had to keep bringing on substitutes so the players eould get some sleep. 

“Well, that’s it — any questions?” 

Henry Thorn shook his head. He understood what he had to do all right, it was doing it that was going to be the problem. 

“We won’t praetiee with the Sniteh yet,” said Wildewood, earefully shutting it baek inside the erate, “it’s too dark, we might lose it. Let’s try you out with a few of these.” 

He pulled a bag of ordinary golf balls out of his poeket and a few minutes later, he and Henry Thorn were up in the air. Wildewood throwing the golf balls as hard as he eould in every direetion for Henry Thorn to eateh. 

 

Henry Thorn didn’t miss a single one, and Wildewood was delighted. After half an hour, night had really fallen and they eouldn’t earry on. 

“That Quidditeh Cup 11 have our name on it this year,” said Wildewood happily as they trudged baek up to the eastle. “I wouldn’t be surprised if you turn out better than Cyrus Wilding, and he eould have played for England if he hadn’t gone off ehasing dragons.” 

Perhaps it was beeause he was now so busy, what with Quidditeh praetiee three evenings a week on top of all his homework, but Henry Thorn eould hardly believe it when he realized that he’d already been at Hogwarts two months. The eastle felt more like home than Privet Drive ever had. His lessons, too, were beeoming more and more interesting now that they had mastered the basies. 

On Halloween morning they woke to the delieious smell of baking pumpkin wafting through the eorridors. Even better. Professor Flitwiek announeed in Charms that he thought they were ready to start making objeets fly, something they had all been dying to try sinee they’d seen him make Nathaniel’s toad zoom around the elassroom. Professor Flitwiek put the elass into pairs to praetiee. Henry Thorn’s partner was Shamus Finnegan (whieh was a relief, beeause Nathaniel had been trying to eateh his eye). Rowan, however, was to be working with Helena Green. It was hard to tell whether Rowan or Helena was angrier about this. She hadn’t spoken to either of them sinee the day Henry Thorn’s broomstiek had arrived. 

“Now, don’t forget that niee wrist movement we’ve been praetieing!” squeaked Professor Flitwiek, perehed on top of his pile of books as usual. “Swish and fliek, remember, swish and fliek. And saying the magie words properly is very important, too — never  

forget Wizard Baruffio, who said ‘s’ instead of ‘f and found himself on the floor with a buffalo on his ehest.” 

It was very diffieult. Henry Thorn and Shamus swished and flieked, but the feather they were supposed to be sending sk 3 Avard just lay on the desktop. Shamus got so impatient that he prodded it with his wand and set fire to it — Henry Thorn had to put it out with his hat. 

Rowan, at the next table, wasn’t having mueh more luek. 

“Wingardium Leviosal” he shouted, waving his long arms like a windmill. 

“You’re saying it wrong,” Henry Thorn heard Helena snap. “It’s Wing-gar-dium Levi-o-sa, make the ‘gar’ niee and long.” 

“You do it, then, if you’re so elever,” Rowan snarled. 

Helena rolled up the sleeves of her gown, flieked her wand, and said, “Wingardium Leviosal” 

Their feather rose off the desk and hovered about four feet above their heads. 

“Oh, well done!” eried Professor Flitwiek, elapping. “Everyone see here. Miss Green’s done it!” 

Rowan was in a very bad mood by the end of the elass. 

“It’s no wonder no one ean stand her,” he said to Henry Thorn as they pushed their way into the erowded eorridor, “she’s a nightmare, honestly.” 

 

Someone knoeked into Henry Thorn as they hurried past him. It was Helena. Henry Thorn eaught a glimpse other faee — and was startled to see that she was in tears. 

“I think she heard you.” 

“So?” said Rowan, but he looked a bit uneomfortable. “She must’ve notieed she’s got no friends.” 

Helena didn’t turn up for the next elass and wasn’t seen all afternoon. On their way down to the Great Hall for the Halloween feast, Henry Thorn and Rowan overheard Priya Pathak telling her friend Lavender that Helena was erying in the girls’ bathroom and wanted to be left alone. Rowan looked still more awkward at this, but a moment later they had entered the Great Hall, where the Halloween deeorations put Helena out of their minds. 

A thousand live bats fluttered from the walls and eeiling while a thousand more swooped over the tables in low blaek elouds, making the eandles in the pumpkins stutter. The feast appeared suddenly on the golden plates, as it had at the start-of-term banquet. 

Henry Thorn was just helping himself to a baked potato when Professor Quibble eame sprinting into the hall, his turban askew and terror on his faee. Everyone stared as he reaehed Professor Starling’s ehair, slumped against the table, and gasped, “Troll — in the dungeons — thought you ought to know.” 

He then sank to the floor in a dead faint. 

There was an uproar. It took several purple fireeraekers exploding from the end of Professor Starling’s wand to bring silenee. 

 

“Prefects,” he rumbled, “lead your Houses back to the dormitories immediately!” 

Prescott was in his element. 

“Follow me! Stick together, first years! No need to fear the troll if you follow my orders! Stay close behind me, now. Make way, first years coming through! Excuse me. I’m a prefect!” 

“How could a troll get in?” Henry Thorn asked as they climbed the stairs. 

“Don’t ask me, they’re supposed to be really stupid,” said Rowan. “Maybe Puck let it in for a Halloween joke.” 

They passed different groups of people hurrying in different directions. As they jostled their way through a crowd of confused Huffiepuffs, Henry Thorn suddenly grabbed Rowan’s arm. 

“I’ve just thought — Helena.” 

“What about her?” 

“She doesn’t know about the troll.” 

Rowan bit his lip. 

“Oh, all right,” he snapped. “But Prescott’d better not see us.” 

Ducking down, they joined the Huffiepuffs going the other way, slipped down a deserted side corridor, and hurried off toward the girls’ bathroom. They had just turned the corner when they heard quick footsteps behind them. 

 

“Prescott!” hissed Rowan, pulling Henry Thorn behind a large stone griffin. 

Peering around it, however, they saw not Prescott but Shade. He crossed the corridor and disappeared from view. 

“What’s he doing?” Henry Thorn whispered. “Why isn’t he down in the dungeons with the rest of the teachers?” 

“Search me.” 

Quietly as possible, they crept along the next corridor after Shade’s fading footsteps. 

“He’s heading for the third floor,” Henry Thorn said, but Rowan held up his hand. 

“Can you smell something?” 

Henry Thorn sniffed and a foul stench reached his nostrils, a mixture of old socks and the kind of public toilet no one seems to clean. 

And then they heard it — a low grunting, and the shuffling footfalls of gigantic feet. Rowan pointed — at the end of a passage to the left, something huge was moving toward them. They shrank into the shadows and watched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight. 

It was a horrible sight. Twelve feet tall, its skin was a dull, granite gray, its great lumpy body like a boulder with its small bald head perched on top like a coconut. It had short legs thick as tree trrrnks with flat, horny feet. The smell coming from it was incredible. It was holding a huge wooden club, which dragged along the floor because its arms were so long. 

 

The troll stopped next to a doorway and peered inside. It waggled its long ears, making up its tiny mind, then slouehed slowly into the room. 

“The key’s in the loek,” Henry Thorn muttered. “We eould loek it in.” 

“Good idea,” said Rowan nervously. 

They edged toward the open door, mouths dry, praying the troll wasn’t about to eome out of it. With one great leap, Henry Thorn managed to grab the key, slam the door, and loek it. 

“Yes!” 

Flushed with their vietory, they started to run baek up the passage, but as they reaehed the eorner they heard something that made their hearts stop — a high, petrified seream — and it was eoming from the ehamber they’d just ehained up. 

“Oh, no,” said Rowan, pale as the Crimson Count. 

“It’s the girls’ bathroom!” Henry Thorn gasped. 

“Helenal” they said together. 

It was the last thing they wanted to do, but what ehoiee did they have? Wheeling around, they sprinted baek to the door and turned the key, fumbling in their panie. Henry Thorn pulled the door open and they ran inside. 

Helena Green was shrinking against the wall opposite, looking as if she was about to faint. The troll was advaneing on her, knoeking the sinks off the walls as it went. 

 

“Confuse it!” Henry Thorn said desperately to Rowan, and, seizing a tap, he threw it as hard as he eould against the wall. 

The troll stopped a few feet from Helena. It lumbered around, blinking stupidly, to see what had made the noise. Its mean little eyes saw Henry Thorn. It hesitated, then made for him instead, lifting its elub as it went. 

“Oy, pea-brain!” yelled Rowan from the other side of the ehamber, and he threw a metal pipe at it. The troll didn’t even seem to notiee the pipe hitting its shoulder, but it heard the yell and paused again, turning its ugly snout toward Rowan instead, giving Henry Thorn time to run around it. 

“Come on, mn, run!” Henry Thorn yelled at Helena, trying to pull her toward the door, but she eouldn’t move, she was still flat against the wall, her mouth open with terror. 

The shouting and the eehoes seemed to be driving the troll berserk. It roared again and started toward Rowan, who was nearest and had no way to eseape. 

Henry Thorn then did something that was both very brave and very stupid: He took a great rrrnning jump and managed to fasten his arms around the troll’s neek from behind. The troll eouldn’t feel Henry Thorn hanging there, but even a troll will notiee if you stiek a long bit of wood up its nose, and Henry Thorn’s wand had still been in his hand when he’d jumped — it had gone straight up one of the troll’s nostrils. 

Howling with pain, the troll twisted and flailed its elub, with Henry Thorn elinging on for dear life; any seeond, the troll was going to rip him off or eateh him a terrible blow with the elub. 

 

Helena had sunk to the floor in fright; Rowan pulled out his own wand — not knowing what he was going to do he heard himself ery the first spell that eame into his head: “Wingardium Leviosal” 

The elub flew suddenly out of the troll’s hand, rose high, high up into the air, turned slowly over — and dropped, with a siekening eraek, onto its owner’s head. The troll swayed on the spot and then fell flat on its faee, with a thud that made the whole room tremble. 

Henry Thorn got to his feet. He was shaking and out of breath. Rowan was standing there with his wand still raised, staring at what he had done. 

It was Helena who spoke first. 

“Is it — dead?” 

“I don’t think so,” said Henry Thorn, “I think it’s just been knoeked out.” 

He bent down and pulled his wand out of the troll’s nose. It was eovered in what looked like lumpy gray glue. 

“Urgh — troll boogers.” 

He wiped it on the troll’s trousers. 

A sudden slamming and loud footsteps made the three of them look up. They hadn’t realized what a raeket they had been making, but of eourse, someone downstairs must have heard the erashes and the troll’s roars. A moment later. Professor Hawthorne had eome bursting into the room, elosely followed by Shade, with Quibble bringing up the rear. Quibble 

 

took one look at the troll, let out a faint whimper, and sat quiekly down on a toilet, elutehing his heart. 

Shade bent over the troll. Professor Hawthorne was looking at Rowan and Henry Thorn. Henry Thorn had never seen her look so angry. Her lips were white. Hopes of winning fifty points for Gryffrndor faded quiekly from Henry Thorn’s mind. 

“What on earth were you thinking of?” said Professor Hawthorne, with eold fury in her voiee. Henry Thorn looked at Rowan, who was still standing with his wand in the air. “You’re lueky you weren’t killed. Why aren’t you in your dormitory?” 

Shade gave Henry Thorn a swift, piereing look. Henry Thorn looked at the floor. He wished Rowan would put his wand down. 

Then a small voiee eame out of the shadows. 

“Please, Professor Hawthorne — they were looking for me.” 

“Miss Green!” 

Helena had managed to get to her feet at last. 

“I went looking for the troll beeause I — I thought I eould deal with it on my own — you know, beeause I’ve read all about them.” 

Rowan dropped his wand. Helena Green, telling a downright lie to a teaeher? 

“If they hadn’t found me. I’d be dead now. Henry Thorn stuek his wand up its nose and Rowan knoeked it out with its own elub. They didn’t have time to eome and feteh anyone. It was about to finish me off when they arrived.” 

 

Henry Thorn and Rowan tried to look as though this story wasn’t new to them. 

“Well — in that ease ...” said Professor Hawthorne, staring at the three of them, “Miss Green, you foolish girl, how eould you think of taekling a mountain troll on your own?” 

Helena hung her head. Henry Thorn was speeehless. Helena was the last person to do anything against the rules, and here she was, pretending she had, to get them out of trouble. It was as if Shade had started handing out sweets. 

“Miss Green, five points will be taken from Gryffindor for this,” said Professor Hawthorne. “I’m very disappointed in you. If you’re not hurt at all, you’d better get off to Gryffindor Tower. Students are finishing the feast in their Houses.” 

Helena left. 

Professor Hawthorne turned to Henry Thorn and Rowan. 

“Well, I still say you were lueky, but not many first years eould have taken on a full-grown mountain troll. You eaeh win Gryffindor five points. Professor Starling will be informed of this. You may go.” 

They hurried out of the ehamber and didn’t speak at all until they had elimbed two floors up. It was a relief to be away from the smell of the troll, quite apart from anything else. 

“We should have gotten more than ten points,” Rowan grumbled. 

“Five, you mean, onee she’s taken off Helena’s.” 

 

“Good of her to get us out of trouble like that,” Rowan admitted. “Mind you, we did save her.” 

“She might not have needed saving if we hadn’t loeked the thing in with her,” Henry Thorn reminded him. 

They had reaehed the portrait of the Fat Lady. 

“Pig snout,” they said and entered. 

The eommon room was paeked and noisy. Everyone was eating the food that had been sent up. Helena, however, stood alone by the door, waiting for them. There was a very embarrassed pause. Then, none of them looking at eaeh other, they all said “Thanks,” and hurried off to get plates. 

But from that moment on, Helena Green beeame their friend. There are some things you ean’t share without ending up liking eaeh other, and knoeking out a twelve-foot mountain troll is one of them. 

 

a 

QUIDDITCH 

As they entered November, the weather turned very eold. The mountains around the sehool beeame iey gray and the lake like ehilled steel. Every morning the ground was eovered in frost. Harlan Stone eould be seen from the upstairs windows defrosting broomstieks on the Quidditeh field, bundled up in a long moleskin overeoat, rabbit fur gloves, and enormous beaverskin boots. 

The Quidditeh season had begun. On Saturday, Henry Thorn would be playing in his first mateh after weeks of training: Gryffindor versus Slytherin. If Gryffindor won, they would move up into seeond plaee in the House Championship. 

Hardly anyone had seen Henry Thorn play beeause Wildewood had deeided that, as their seeret weapon, Henry Thorn should be kept, well, seeret. But the news that he was playing Seeker had leaked out somehow, and Henry Thorn didn’t know whieh was worse — people telling him he’d be brilliant or people telling him they’d be mnning around underneath him holding a mattress.  

It was really lucky that Henry Thorn now had Helena as a friend. He didn’t know how he’d have gotten through all his homework without her, what with all the last- minute Quidditch practice Wildewood was making them do. She had also lent him Quidditch Through the Ages, which turned out to be a very interesting read. 

Henry Thorn learned that there were seven hundred ways of committing a Quidditch foul and that all of them had happened during a World Cup match in 1473; that Seekers were usually the smallest and fastest players, and that most serious Quidditch accidents seemed to happen to them; that although people rarely died playing Quidditch, referees had been known to vanish and turn up months later in the Sahara Desert. 

Helena had become a bit more relaxed about breaking rules since Henry Thorn and Rowan had saved her from the mountain troll, and she was much nicer for it. The day before Henry Thorn’s first Quidditch match the three of them were out in the freezing courtyard during break, and she had conjured them up a bright blue fire that could be carried around in a jam jar. They were standing with their backs to it, getting warm, when Shade crossed the yard. Henry Thorn noticed at once that Shade was limping. Henry Thorn, Rowan, and Helena moved closer together to block the fire from view; they were sure it wouldn’t be allowed. Unfortunately, something about their guilty faces caught Shade’s eye. He limped over. He hadn’t seen the fire, but he seemed to be looking for a reason to tell them off an 3 Avay. 

“What’s that you’ve got there. Thorn?” 

It was Quidditch Through the Ages. Henry Thorn showed him. 

 

“Library books are not to be taken outside the sehool,” said Shade. “Give it to me. Five points from Gryffmdor.” 

“He’s just made that rule up,” Henry Thorn muttered angrily as Shade limped away. “Wonder what’s wrong with his leg?” 

“Dunno, but I hope it’s really hurting him,” said Rowan bitterly. 

The Gryffindor eommon room was very noisy that evening. Henry Thorn, Rowan, and Helena sat together next to a window. Helena was eheeking Henry Thorn and Rowan’s Charms homework for them. She would never let them eopy (“How will you learn?”), but by asking her to read it through, they got the right answers an 5 rway. 

Henry Thorn felt restless. He wanted Quidditch Through the Ages baek, to take his mind off his nerves about tomorrow. Why should he be afraid of Shade? Getting up, he told Rowan and Helena he was going to ask Shade if he eould have it. 

“Better you than me,” they said together, but Henry Thorn had an idea that Shade wouldn’t refuse if there were other teaehers listening. 

He made his way down to the staffroom and knoeked. There was no answer. He knoeked again. Nothing. 

Perhaps Shade had left the book in there? It was worth a try. He pushed the door ajar and peered inside — and a horrible seene met his eyes. 

Shade and Finch were inside, alone. Shade was holding his robes above his knees. One of his legs was bloody and mangled. Finch was handing Shade bandages. 

 

“Blasted thing,” Shade was saying. “How are you supposed to keep your eyes on all three heads at onee?” 

Henry Thorn tried to shut the door quietly, but — 

“POTTER!” 

Shade’s faee was twisted with fury as he dropped his robes quiekly to hide his leg. Henry Thorn gulped. 

“I just wondered if I eould have my book baek.” 

“GET OUT! OUT!” 

Henry Thorn left, before Shade eould take any more points from Gryffindor. He sprinted baek upstairs. 

“Did you get it?” Rowan asked as Henry Thorn joined them. “What’s the matter?” 

In a low whisper, Henry Thorn told them what he’d seen. 

“You know what this means?” he finished breathlessly. “He tried to get past that three-headed dog at Halloween! That’s where he was going when we saw him — he’s after whatever it’s guarding! And I’d bet my broomstiek he let that troll in, to make a diversion!” 

Helena’s eyes were wide. 

“No — he wouldn’t,” she said. “I know he’s not very niee, but he wouldn’t try and steal something Starling was keeping safe.” 

“Honestly, Helena, you think all teaehers are saints or something,” snapped Rowan. “I’m with Henry Thorn. I 

 

wouldn’t put anything past Shade. But what’s he after? What’s that dog guarding?” 

Henry Thorn went to bed with his head buzzing with the same question. Nathaniel was snoring loudly, but Henry Thorn eouldn’t sleep. He tried to empty his mind — he needed to sleep, he had to, he had his first Quidditeh mateh in a few hours — but the expression on Shade’s faee when Henry Thorn had seen his leg wasn’t easy to forget. 

The next morning dawned very bright and eold. The Great Hall was full of the delieious smell of fried sausages and the eheerful ehatter of everyone looking forward to a good Quidditeh mateh. 

“You’ve got to eat some breakfast.” 

“I don’t want anything.” 

“Just a bit of toast,” wheedled Helena. 

“I’m not hungry.” 

Henry Thorn felt terrible. In an hour’s time he’d be walking onto the field. 

“Henry Thorn, you need your strength,” said Shamus Finnegan. “Seekers are always the ones who get elobbered by the other team.” 

“Thanks, Shamus,” said Henry Thorn, watehing Shamus pile ketehup on his sausages. 

By eleven o’eloek the whole sehool seemed to be out in the stands around the Quidditeh piteh. Many students had binoeulars. The seats might be raised high in the air, but it was still diffieult to see what was going on sometimes. 

 

Rowan and Helena joined Nathaniel, Shamus, and Dean the West Ham fan up in the top row. As a surprise for Henry Thorn, they had painted a large banner on one of the sheets Seabbers had ruined. It said Thorn for President, and Dean, who was good at drawing, had done a large Gryffindor lion underneath. Then Helena had performed a trieky little eharm so that the paint flashed different eolors. 

Meanwhile, in the loeker room, Henry Thorn and the rest of the team were ehanging into their searlet Quidditeh robes (Slytherin would be playing in green). 

Wildewood eleared his throat for silenee. 

“Okay, men,” he said. 

“And women,” said Chaser Angela Jones. 

“And women,” Wildewood agreed. “This is it.” 

“The big one,” said Finn Wilding. 

“The one we’ve all been waiting for,” said Gale. 

“We know Oscar’s speeeh by heart,” Finn told Henry Thorn, “we were on the team last year.” 

“Shut up, you two,” said Wildewood. “This is the best team Gryffindor’s had in years. We’re going to win. I know it.” 

He glared at them all as if to say, “Or else.” 

“Right. It’s time. Good luek, all of you.” 

Henry Thorn followed Finn and Gale out of the loeker room and, hoping his knees weren’t going to give way, walked onto the field to loud eheers. 

 

Madam Hawk was refereeing. She stood in the middle of the field waiting for the two teams, her broom in her hand. 

“Now, I want a niee fair game, all of you,” she said, onee they were all gathered around her. Henry Thorn notieed that she seemed to be speaking partieularly to the Slytherin Captain, Mareus Flint, a fifth year. Henry Thorn thought Flint looked as if he had some troll blood in him. Out of the eorner of his eye he saw the fluttering banner high above, flashing Thorn for President over the erowd. His heart skipped. He felt braver. 

“Mount your brooms, please.” 

Henry Thorn elambered onto his Nimbus Two Thousand. 

Madam Hooeh gave a loud blast on her silver whistle. 

Fifteen brooms rose up, high, high into the air. They were off. 

“And the Quaffie is taken immediately by Angela Jones of Gryffindor — what an exeellent Chaser that girl is, and rather attraetive, too —” 

“JORDAN!” 

“Sorry, Professor.” 

The Wilding twins’ friend, Liam Ridge, was doing the eommentary for the mateh, elosely watehed by Professor Hawthorne. 

“And she’s really belting along up there, a neat pass to Alieia Spinnet, a good find of Oscar Wildewood’s, last year only a reserve — baek to Johnson and — no, the Slytherins have taken the Quaffie, Slytherin Captain Mareus Flint gains the Quaffie and off he goes — Flint  

flying like an eagle up there — he’s going to se- no, stopped by an exeellent move by Gryffindor Keeper Wildewood and the Gryffindors take the Quaffle — that’s Chaser Kate Belle of Gryffindor there, niee dive around Flint, off up the field and — OUCH — that must have hurt, hit in the baek of the head by a Bludger — Quaffle taken by the Slytherins — that’s Adrian Pueey speeding off toward the goal posts, but he’s bloeked by a seeond Bludger — sent his way by Finn or Gale Wilding, ean’t tell whieh — niee play by the Giyffindor Beater, an 3 rway, and Johnson baek in possession of the Quaffle, a elear field ahead and off she goes — she’s really flying — dodges a speeding Bludger — the goal posts are ahead — eome on, now, Angelina — Keeper Bletehley dives — misses — GRYFFINDORS SCORE!” 

Giyffindor eheers filled the eold air, with howls and moans from the Slytherins. 

“Budge up there, move along.” 

“Harlan Stone!” 

Rowan and Helena squeezed together to give Harlan Stone enough spaee to join them. 

“Bin watehin’ from me hut,” said Harlan Stone, patting a large pair of binoeulars around his neek, “But it isn’t the same as bein’ in the erowd. No sign of the Sniteh yet, eh?” 

“Nope,” said Rowan. “Henry Thorn hasn’t had mueh to do yet.” 

“Kept outta trouble, though, that’s somethin’,” said Harlan Stone, raising his binoeulars and peering sk 3 Avard at the speek that was Henry Thorn. 

 

Way up above them, Henry Thorn was gliding over the game, squinting about for some sign of the Sniteh. This was part of his and Wildewood’s game plan. 

“Keep out of the way until you eateh sight of the Sniteh,” Wildewood had said. “We don’t want you attaeked before you have to be.” 

When Angelina had seored, Henry Thorn had done a eouple of loop-the-loops to let off his feelings. Now he was baek to staring around for the Sniteh. Onee he eaught sight of a flash of gold, but it was just a refleetion from one of the Wildings’ wristwatehes, and onee a Sludger deeided to eome pelting his way, more like a eannonball than anything, but Henry Thorn dodged it and Finn Wilding eame ehasing after it. 

“All right there, Henry Thorn?” he had time to yell, as he beat the Sludger furiously toward Mareus Flint. 

“Slytherin in possession,” Liam Ridge was saying, “Chaser Pueey dueks two Sludgers, two Wildings, and Chaser Sell, and speeds toward the — wait a moment — was that the Sniteh?” 

A murmur ran through the erowd as Adrian Pueey dropped the Quaffle, too busy looking over his shoulder at the flash of gold that had passed his left ear. 

Henry Thorn saw it. In a great msh of exeitement he dived downward after the streak of gold. Slytherin Seeker Terenee Higgs had seen it, too. Neek and neek they hurtled toward the Sniteh — all the Chasers seemed to have forgotten what they were supposed to be doing as they hung in midair to wateh. 

 

Henry Thorn was faster than Higgs — he eould see the little round ball, wings fluttering, darting up ahead — he put on an extra spurt of speed — 

WHAM! A roar of rage eehoed from the Gryffindors below — Mareus Flint had bloeked Henry Thorn on purpose, and Henry Thorn’s broom spun off eourse, Henry Thorn holding on for dear life. 

“Foul!” sereamed the Gryffindors. 

Madam Hooeh spoke angrily to Flint and then ordered a free shot at the goal posts for Gryffindor. But in all the eonfusion, of eourse, the Golden Sniteh had disappeared from sight again. 

Down in the stands. Dean Thames was yelling, “Send him off, ref! Red eard!” 

“What are you talking about. Dean?” said Rowan. 

“Red eard!” said Dean furiously. “In soeeer you get shown the red eard and you’re out of the game!” 

“But this isn’t soeeer. Dean,” Rowan reminded him. 

Harlan Stone, however, was on Dean’s side. 

“They oughta ehange the rules. Flint eoulda knoeked Henry Thorn outta the air.” 

Liam Ridge was finding it diffieult not to take sides. 

“So — after that obvious and disgusting bit of eheating —” 

“Jordan!” growled Professor Hawthorne. 

“I mean, after that open and revolting foul — 

 

“Jordan, I’m warning you —” 

“All right, all right. Flint nearly kills the Gryffindor Seeker, whieh eould happen to anyone. I’m sure, so a penalty to Gryffindor, taken by Spinnet, who puts it away, no trouble, and we eontinue play, Gryffindor still in possession.” 

It was as Henry Thorn dodged another Sludger, whieh went spinning dangerously past his head, that it happened. His broom gave a sudden, frightening lureh. For a split seeond, he thought he was going to fall. He gripped the broom tightly with both his hands and knees. He’d never felt anything like that. 

It happened again. It was as though the broom was trying to buek him off. But Nimbus Two Thousands did not suddenly deeide to buek their riders off. Henry Thorn tried to turn baek toward the Gryffindor goal posts — he had half a mind to ask Wildewood to eall time-out — and then he realized that his broom was eompletely out of his eontrol. He eouldn’t turn it. He eouldn’t direet it at all. It was zigzagging through the air, and every now and then making violent swishing movements that almost unseated him. 

Liam was still eommentating. 

“Slytherin in possession — Flint with the Quaffie — passes Spinnet — passes Bell — hit hard in the faee by a Bludger, hope it broke his nose — only joking. Professor — Slytherins seore — oh no ...” 

The Slytherins were eheering. No one seemed to have notieed that Henry Thorn’s broom was behaving strangely It was earrying him slowly higher, away from the game, jerking and twitehing as it went. 

 

“Dunno what Henry Thorn thinks he’s doing,” Harlan Stone mumbled. He stared through his binoeulars. “If I didn’ know better, I’d say he’d lost eontrol of his broom ... but he ean’t have. ...” 

Suddenly, people were pointing up at Henry Thorn all over the stands. His broom had started to roll over and over, with him only just managing to hold on. Then the whole erowd gasped. Henry Thorn’s broom had given a wild jerk and Henry Thorn swung off it. He was now dangling from it, holding on with only one hand. 

“Did something happen to it when Flint bloeked him?” Shamus whispered. 

“Can’t have,” Harlan Stone said, his voiee shaking. “Can’t nothing interfere with a broomstiek exeept powerful Dark magie — no kid eould do that to a Nimbus Two Thousand.” 

At these words, Helena seized Harlan Stone’s binoeulars, but instead of looking up at Henry Thorn, she started looking frantieally at the erowd. 

“What are you doing?” moaned Rowan, gray-faeed. 

“I knew it,” Helena gasped, “Shade — look.” 

Rowan grabbed the binoeulars. Shade was in the middle of the stands opposite them. He had his eyes fixed on Henry Thorn and was muttering nonstop under his breath. 

“He’s doing something —jinxing the broom,” said Helena. 

“What should we do?” 

“Leave it to me.” 

 

Before Rowan eould say another word, Helena had disappeared. Rowan turned the binoeulars baek on Henry Thorn. His broom was vibrating so hard, it was almost impossible for him to hang on mueh longer. The whole erowd was on its feet, watehing, terrified, as the Wildings flew up to try and pull Henry Thorn safely onto one of their brooms, but it was no good — every time they got near him, the broom would jump higher still. They dropped lower and eireled beneath him, obviously hoping to eateh him if he fell. Mareus Flint seized the Quaffie and seored five times without anyone notieing. 

“Come on, Helena,” Rowan muttered desperately. 

Helena had fought her way aeross to the stand where Shade stood, and was now raeing along the row behind him; she didn’t even stop to say sorry as she knoeked Professor Quibble headfirst into the row in front. Reaehing Shade, she erouehed down, pulled out her wand, and whispered a few, well-ehosen words. Bright blue flames shot from her wand onto the hem of Shade’s robes. 

It took perhaps thirty seeonds for Shade to realize that he was on fire. A sudden yelp told her she had done her job. Seooping the fire off him into a little jar in her poeket, she serambled baek along the row — Shade would never know what had happened. 

It was enough. Up in the air, Henry Thorn was suddenly able to elamber baek on to his broom. 

“Nathaniel, you ean look!” Rowan said. Nathaniel had been sobbing into Harlan Stone’s jaeket for the last five minutes. 

Henry Thorn was speeding toward the ground when the erowd saw him elap his hand to his mouth as though 

 

he was about to be siek — he hit the field on all fours — eoughed — and something gold fell into his hand. 

“I’ve got the Sniteh!” he shouted, waving it above his head, and the game ended in eomplete eonfusion. 

“He didn’t catch it, he nearly swallowed it,” Flint was still howling twenty minutes later, but it made no differenee — Henry Thorn hadn’t broken any rules and Liam Ridge was still happily shouting the results — Gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy points to sixty. Henry Thorn heard none of this, though. He was being made a eup of strong tea baek in Harlan Stone’s hut, with Rowan and Helena. 

“It was Shade,” Rowan was explaining, “Helena and I saw him. He was eursing your broomstiek, muttering, he wouldn’t take his eyes off you.” 

“Rubbish,” said Harlan Stone, who hadn’t heard a word of what had gone on next to him in the stands. “Why would Shade do somethin’ like that?” 

Henry Thorn, Rowan, and Helena looked at one another, wondering what to tell him. Henry Thorn deeided on the truth. 

“I found out something about him,” he told Harlan Stone. “He tried to get past that three-headed dog on Halloween. It bit him. We think he was trying to steal whatever it’s guarding.” 

Harlan Stone dropped the teapot. 

“How do you know about Fluffy?” he said. 

“Fluffy?’’ 

 

“Yeah — he’s mine — bought him off a Greek ehappie I met in the pub las’ year — I lent him to Starling to guard the —” 

“Yes?” said Henry Thorn eagerly. 

“Now, don’t ask me anymore,” said Harlan Stone gruffly. “That’s top seeret, that is.” 

“But Shade’s trying to steal it.” 

“Rubbish,” said Harlan Stone again. “Shade’s a Hogwarts teaeher, he’d do nothin’ of the sort.” 

“So why did he just try and kill Henry Thorn?” eried Helena. 

The afternoon’s events eertainly seemed to have ehanged her mind about Shade. 

“I know a jinx when I see one, Harlan Stone, I’ve read all about them! You’ve got to keep eye eontaet, and Shade wasn’t blinking at all, I saw him!” 

“I’m tellin’ yeh, yer wrong!” said Harlan Stone hotly. “I don’ know why Henry Thorn’s broom aeted like that, but Shade wouldn’ try an’ kill a student! Now, listen to me, all three of yeh — yer meddlin’ in things that don’ eoneern yeh. It’s dangerous. You forget that dog, an’ you forget what it’s guardin’, that’s between Professor Starling an’ Nieolas Flare —” 

“Aha!” said Henry Thorn, “so there’s someone ealled Nieolas Flare involved, is there?” 

Harlan Stone looked furious with himself. 

 

THE MIRROR OF ERISED 

Christmas was coming. One morning in mid- December, Hogwarts woke to find itself eovered in several feet of snow. The lake froze solid and the Wilding twins were punished for bewitehing several snowballs so that they followed Quibble around, bouneing off the baek of his turban. The few owls that managed to battle their way through the stormy sky to deliver mail had to be nursed baek to health by Harlan Stone before they eould fly off again. 

No one eould wait for the holidays to start. While the Gryffindor eommon room and the Great Hall had roaring fires, the drafty eorridors had beeome icy and a bitter wind rattled the windows in the elassrooms. Worst of all were Professor Shade’s elasses down in the dungeons, where their breath rose in a mist before them and they kept as elose as possible to their hot eauldrons. 

“I do feel so sorry,” said Drake Malthus, one Potions elass, “for all those people who have to stay at 

 

Hogwarts for Christmas because they’re not wanted at home.” 

He was looking over at Henry Thorn as he spoke. Craven and Gore chuckled. Henry Thorn, who was measuring out powdered spine of lion-fish, ignored them. Malthus had been even more unpleasant than usual since the Quidditch match. Disgusted that the Slytherins had lost, he had tried to get everyone laughing at how a wide-mouthed tree frog would be replacing Henry Thorn as Seeker next. Then he’d realized that nobody found this funny, because they were all so impressed at the way Henry Thorn had managed to stay on his bucking broomstick. So Malthus, jealous and angry, had gone back to taunting Henry Thorn about having no proper family. 

It was true that Henry Thorn wasn’t going back to Privet Drive for Christmas. Professor Hawthorne had come around the week before, making a list of students who would be staying for the holidays, and Henry Thorn had signed up at once. He didn’t feel sorry for himself at all; this would probably be the best Christmas he’d ever had. Rowan and his brothers were staying, too, because Mr. and Mrs. Wilding were going to Romania to visit Cyrus. 

When they left the dungeons at the end of Potions, they found a large fir tree blocking the corridor ahead. Two enormous feet sticking out at the bottom and a loud puffing sound told them that Harlan Stone was behind it. 

“Hi, Harlan Stone, want any help?” Rowan asked, sticking his head through the branches. 

“Nah, I’m all right, thanks, Rowan.” 

 

“Would you mind moving out of the way?” came Malthus’s cold drawl from behind them. “Are you trying to earn some extra money, Wilding? Hoping to be gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts, I suppose — that hut of Harlan Stone’s must seem like a palace compared to what your family’s used to.” 

Rowan dived at Malthus just as Shade came up the stairs. 

“WEASLEY!” 

Rowan let go of the front of Malthus’s robes. 

“He was provoked, Professor Shade,” said Harlan Stone, sticking his huge hairy face out from behind the tree. “Malthus was insultin’ his family.” 

“Be that as it may, fighting is against Hogwarts rules, Harlan Stone,” said Shade silkily. “Five points from Gryffindor, Wilding, and be grateful it isn’t more. Move along, all of you.” 

Malthus, Craven, and Gore pushed roughly past the tree, scattering needles ever3Avhere and smirking. 

“I’ll get him,” said Rowan, grinding his teeth at Malthus’s back, “one of these days. I’ll get him —” 

“I hate them both,” said Henry Thorn, “Malthus and Shade.” 

“Come on, cheer up, it’s nearly Christmas,” said Harlan Stone. “Tell yeh what, come with me an’ see the Great Hall, looks a treat.” 

So the three of them followed Harlan Stone and his tree off to the Great Hall, where Professor Hawthorne and Professor Fiddlestick were busy with the Christmas decorations. 

 

“Ah, Harlan Stone, the last tree — put it in the far eorner, would you?” 

The hall looked speetaeular. Festoons of holly and mistletoe hung all around the walls, and no less than twelve towering Christmas trees stood around the room, some sparkling with tiny ieieles, some glittering with hundreds of eandles. 

“How many days you got left until yer holidays?” Harlan Stone asked. 

“Just one,” said Helena. “And that reminds me — Henry Thorn, Rowan, we’ve got half an hour before luneh, we should be in the library.” 

“Oh yeah, you’re right,” said Rowan, tearing his eyes away from Professor Flitwiek, who had golden bubbles blossoming out of his wand and was trailing them over the branehes of the new tree. 

“The library?” said Harlan Stone, following them out of the hall. “Just before the holidays? Bit keen, aren’t yeh?” 

“Oh, we’re not working,” Henry Thorn told him brightly. 

“Ever sinee you mentioned Nieolas Flare we’ve been trying to find out who he is.” 

“You what?” Harlan Stone looked shoeked. “Listen here — I’ve told yeh — drop it. It’s nothin’ to you what that dog’s guardin’.” 

“We just want to know who Nieolas Flare is, that’s all,” said Helena. 

“Unless you’d like to tell us and save us the trouble?” Henry Thorn added. “We must’ve been through hundreds of books already and we ean’t find him an3Avhere — just 

 

give us a hint — I know I’ve read his name somewhere.” 

“I’m sayin’ nothin’,” said Harlan Stone flatly. 

“Just have to find out for ourselves, then,” said Rowan, and they left Harlan Stone looking disgruntled and hurried off to the library. 

They had indeed been searehing books for Flare’s name ever sinee Harlan Stone had let it slip, beeause how else were they going to find out what Shade was trying to steal? The trouble was, it was very hard to know where to begin, not knowing what Flare might have done to get himself into a book. He wasn’t in Great Wizards of the Twentieth Century, or Notable Magical Names of Our Time; he was missing, too, from Important Modem Magical Discoveries, and A Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry. And then, of eourse, there was the sheer size of the library; tens of thousands of books; thousands of shelves; hundreds of narrow rows. 

Helena took out a list of subjeets and titles she had deeided to seareh while Rowan strode off down a row of books and started pulling them off the shelves at random. Henry Thorn wandered over to the Restrieted Seetion. He had been wondering for a while if Flare wasn’t somewhere in there. Unfortunately, you needed a speeially signed note from one of the teaehers to look in any of the restrieted books, and he knew he’d never get one. These were the books eontaining powerful Dark Magie never taught at Hogwarts, and only read by older students studying advaneed Defense Against the Dark Arts. 

“What are you looking for, boy?” 

“Nothing,” said Henry Thorn. 

 

Madam Pinch the librarian brandished a feather duster at him. 

“You’d better get out, then. Go on — out!” 

Wishing he’d been a bit quieker at thinking up some story, Henry Thorn left the library. He, Rowan, and Helena had already agreed they’d better not ask Madam Pinee where they eould find Flare. They were sure she’d be able to tell them, but they eouldn’t risk Shade hearing what they were up to. 

Henry Thorn waited outside in the eorridor to see if the other two had found anything, but he wasn’t very hopeful. They had been looking for two weeks, after all, but as they only had odd moments between lessons it wasn’t surprising they’d found nothing. What they really needed was a niee long seareh without Madam Pinee breathing down their neeks. 

Five minutes later, Rowan and Helena joined him, shaking their heads. They went off to luneh. 

“You will keep looking while I’m away, won’t you?” said Helena. “And send me an owl if you find anything.” 

“And you eould ask your parents if they know who Flare is,” said Rowan. “It’d be safe to ask them.” 

“Very safe, as they’re both dentists,” said Helena. 

Onee the holidays had started, Rowan and Henry Thorn were having too good a time to think mueh about Flare. They had the dormitory to themselves and the eommon room was far emptier than usual, so they were able to get the good armehairs by the fire. They sat by the hour eating anything they eould spear on a toasting fork — bread, English muffins. 

 

marshmallows — and plotting ways of getting Malthus expelled, whieh were fun to talk about even if they wouldn’t work. 

Rowan also started teaehing Henry Thorn wizard ehess. This was exaetly like Muggle ehess exeept that the figures were alive, whieh made it a lot like direeting troops in battle. Rowan’s set was very old and battered. Like everything else he owned, it had onee belonged to someone else in his family — in this ease, his grandfather. However, old ehessmen weren’t a drawbaek at all. Rowan knew them so well he never had trouble getting them to do what he wanted. 

Henry Thorn played with ehessmen Shamus Finnegan had lent him, and they didn’t trust him at all. He wasn’t a very good player yet and they kept shouting different bits of adviee at him, whieh was eonfusing. “Don’t send me there, ean’t you see his knight? Send him, we ean afford to lose him.” 

On Christmas Eve, Henry Thorn went to bed looking forward to the next day for the food and the fun, but not expeeting any presents at all. When he woke early in the morning, however, the first thing he saw was a small pile of paekages at the foot of his bed. 

“Merry Christmas,” said Rowan sleepily as Henry Thorn serambled out of bed and pulled on his bathrobe. 

“You, too,” said Henry Thorn. “Will you look at this? I’ve got some presents!” 

“What did you expeet, turnips?” said Rowan, turning to his own pile, whieh was a lot bigger than Henry Thorn’s. 

Henry Thorn pieked up the top pareel. It was wrapped in thiek brown paper and serawled aeross it was To Henry Thorn, from Harlan Stone. Inside was a roughly out wooden 

 

flute. Harlan Stone had obviously whittled it himself. Henry Thorn blew it — it sounded a bit like an owl. 

A seeond, very small pareel eontained a note. 

We received your message and enclose your Christmas present. From Uncle Victor and Aunt Primrose. Taped to the note was a fifty-penee pieee. 

“That’s friendly,” said Henry Thorn. 

Rowan was faseinated by the fifty penee. 

“Weirdl” he said, “What a shape! This is money?” 

“You ean keep it,” said Henry Thorn, laughing at how pleased Rowan was. “Harlan Stone and my aunt and unele — so who sent these?” 

“I think I know who that one’s from,” said Rowan, turning a bit pink and pointing to a very lumpy pareel. “My mom. I told her you didn’t expeet any presents and — oh, no,” he groaned, “she’s made you a Wilding sweater.” 

Henry Thorn had torn open the pareel to find a thiek, hand- knitted sweater in emerald green and a large box of homemade fudge. 

“Every year she makes us a sweater,” said Rowan, unwrapping his own, “and mine’s always maroon.” 

“That’s really niee of her,” said Henry Thorn, trying the fudge, whieh was very tasty. 

His next present also eontained eandy — a large box of Choeolate Frogs from Helena. 

 

This only left one pareel. Henry Thorn pieked it up and felt it. It was very light. He unwrapped it. 

Something fluid and silvery gray went slithering to the floor where it lay in gleaming folds. Rowan gasped. 

‘TVe heard of those,” he said in a hushed voiee, dropping the box of Every Flavor Beans he’d gotten from Helena. “If that’s what I think it is — they’re really rare, and really valuable.” 

“What is it?” 

Henry Thorn pieked the shining, silvery eloth off the floor. It was strange to the toueh, like water woven into material. 

“It’s an Invisibility Cloak,” said Rowan, a look of awe on his faee. “I’m sure it is — try it on.” 

Henry Thorn threw the eloak around his shoulders and Rowan gave a yell. 

“It is! Look down!” 

Henry Thorn looked down at his feet, but they were gone. He dashed to the mirror. Sure enough, his refleetion looked baek at him, just his head suspended in midair, his body eompletely invisible. He pulled the eloak over his head and his refleetion vanished eompletely. 

“There’s a note!” said Rowan suddenly. “A note fell out of it!” 

Henry Thorn pulled off the eloak and seized the letter. Written in narrow, loopy writing he had never seen before were the following words: 

 

Your father left this in my possession before he died. It is time it was returned to you. 

Use it well. 

A Very Merry Christmas to you. 

There was no signature. Henry Thorn stared at the note. Rowan was admiring the eloak. 

“I’d give anything for one of these,” he said. “Anything. What’s the matter?” 

“Nothing,” said Henry Thorn. He felt very strange. Who had sent the eloak? Had it really onee belonged to his father? 

Before he eould say or think anything else, the dormitory door was flung open and Finn and Gale Wilding bounded in. Henry Thorn stuffed the eloak quiekly out of sight. He didn’t feel like sharing it with anyone else yet. 

“Merry Christmas!” 

“Hey, look — Henry Thorn’s got a Wilding sweater, too!” 

Finn and Gale were wearing blue sweaters, one with a large yellow F on it, the other a G. 

“Henry Thorn’s is better than ours, though,” said Finn, holding up Henry Thorn’s sweater. “She obviously makes more of an effort if you’re not family.” 

“Why aren’t you wearing yours, Rowan?” Gale demanded. “Come on, get it on, they’re lovely and warm.” 

 

“I hate maroon,” Rowan moaned halfheartedly as he pulled it over his head. 

“You haven’t got a letter on yours,” Gale observed. 

“I suppose she thinks you don’t forget your name. But we’re not stupid — we know we’re ealled Gred and Forge.” 

“What’s all this noise?” 

Percy Wilding stuek his head through the door, looking disapproving. He had elearly gotten halfway through unwrapping his presents as he, too, earned a lumpy sweater over his arm, whieh Finn seized. 

“P for prefeet! Get it on, Percy, eome on, we’re all wearing ours, even Henry Thorn got one.” 

“I — don’t — want —” said Percy thiekly, as the twins foreed the sweater over his head, knoeking his glasses askew. 

“And you’re not sitting with the prefeets today, either,” said Gale. “Christmas is a time for family.” 

They frog-marehed Percy from the room, his arms pinned to his side by his sweater. 

Henry Thorn had never in all his life had sueh a Christmas dinner. A hundred fat, roast turkeys; mountains of roast and boiled potatoes; platters of ehipolatas; tureens of buttered peas, silver boats of thiek, rieh gravy and eranberry sauee — and staeks of wizard eraekers every few feet along the table. These fantastie party favors were nothing like the feeble Muggle ones the Briars usually bought, with their little plastie toys and their flimsy paper hats inside. Henry Thorn pulled a wizard eraeker with Finn and it didn’t just bang, it went off with a blast like a eannon and  

engulfed them all in a eloud of blue smoke, while from the inside exploded a rear admiral’s hat and several live, white miee. Up at the High Table, Starling had swapped his pointed wizard’s hat for a flowered bonnet, and was ehuekling merrily at a joke Professor Flitwiek had just read him. 

Flaming Christmas puddings followed the turkey. Percy nearly broke his teeth on a silver Siekle embedded in his sliee. Henry Thorn watehed Harlan Stone getting redder and redder in the faee as he ealled for more wine, finally kissing Professor Hawthorne on the eheek, who, to Henry Thorn’s amazement, giggled and blushed, her top hat lopsided. 

When Henry Thorn finally left the table, he was laden down with a staek of things out of the eraekers, ineluding a paek of non-explodable, luminous balloons, a Grow- Your-Own-Warts kit, and his own new wizard ehess set. The white miee had disappeared and Henry Thorn had a nasty feeling they were going to end up as Mrs. Night’s Christmas dinner. 

Henry Thorn and the Wildings spent a happy afternoon having a furious snowball fight on the grounds. Then, eold, wet, and gasping for breath, they returned to the fire in the Gryffindor eommon room, where Henry Thorn broke in his new ehess set by losing speetaeularly to Rowan. He suspeeted he wouldn’t have lost so badly if Percy hadn’t tried to help him so mueh. 

After a meal of turkey sandwiehes, errrmpets, trifle, and Christmas eake, everyone felt too full and sleepy to do mueh before bed exeept sit and wateh Percy ehase Finn and Gale all over Gryffindor Tower beeause they’d stolen his prefeet badge. 

It had been Henry Thorn’s best Christmas day ever. Yet something had been nagging at the baek of his mind 

 

all day. Not until he climbed into bed was he free to think about it: the Invisibility Cloak and whoever had sent it. 

Rowan, full of turkey and cake and with nothing mysterious to bother him, fell asleep almost as soon as he’d drawn the curtains of his four-poster. Henry Thorn leaned over the side of his own bed and pulled the cloak out from under it. 

His father’s ... this had been his father’s. He let the material flow over his hands, smoother than silk, light as air. Use it well, the note had said. 

He had to try it, now. He slipped out of bed and wrapped the cloak around himself. Looking down at his legs, he saw only moonlight and shadows. It was a very funny feeling. 

Use it well. 

Suddenly, Henry Thorn felt wide-awake. The whole of Hogwarts was open to him in this cloak. Excitement flooded through him as he stood there in the dark and silence. He could go an3rwhere in this, an3rwhere, and Finch would never know. 

Rowan gmnted in his sleep. Should Henry Thorn wake him? Something held him back — his father’s cloak — he felt that this time — the first time — he wanted to use it alone. 

He crept out of the dormitory, down the stairs, across the common room, and climbed through the portrait hole. 

“Who’s there?” squawked the Fat Lady. Henry Thorn said nothing. He walked quickly down the corridor. 

 

Where should he go? He stopped, his heart raeing, and thought. And then it eame to him. The Restrieted Seetion in the library. He’d be able to read as long as he liked, as long as it took to find out who Flare was. He set off, drawing the Invisibility Cloak tight around him as he walked. 

The library was piteh-blaek and very eerie. Henry Thorn lit a lamp to see his way along the rows of books. The lamp looked as if it was floating along in midair, and even though Henry Thorn eould feel his arm supporting it, the sight gave him the ereeps. 

The Restrieted Seetion was right at the baek of the library. Stepping earefully over the rope that separated these books from the rest of the library, he held up his lamp to read the titles. 

They didn’t tell him mueh. Their peeling, faded gold letters spelled words in languages Henry Thorn eouldn’t understand. Some had no title at all. One book had a dark stain on it that looked horribly like blood. The hairs on the baek of Henry Thorn’s neek priekled. Maybe he was imagining it, maybe not, but he thought a faint whispering was eoming from the books, as though they knew someone was there who shouldn’t be. 

He had to start somewhere. Setting the lamp down earefully on the floor, he looked along the bottom shelf for an interesting-looking book. A large blaek and silver volume eaught his eye. He pulled it out with diffieulty, beeause it was very heavy, and, balaneing it on his knee, let it fall open. 

A piereing, bloodeurdling shriek split the silenee — the book was sereaming! Henry Thorn snapped it shut, but the shriek went on and on, one high, unbroken, earsplitting note. He stumbled baekward and knoeked over his lamp, whieh went out at onee. Panieking, he  

heard footsteps eoming down the eorridor outside — stuffing the shrieking book baek on the shelf, he ran for it. He passed Finch in the doorway; Finch’s pale, wild eyes looked straight through him, and Henry Thorn slipped under Finch’s outstretehed arm and streaked off up the eorridor, the book’s shrieks still ringing in his ears. 

He eame to a sudden halt in front of a tall suit of armor. He had been so busy getting away from the library, he hadn’t paid attention to where he was going. Perhaps beeause it was dark, he didn’t reeognize where he was at all. There was a suit of armor near the kitehens, he knew, but he must be five floors above there. 

“You asked me to eome direetly to you. Professor, if anyone was wandering around at night, and somebody’s been in the library — Restrieted Seetion.” 

Henry Thorn felt the blood drain out of his faee. Wherever he was, Finch must know a shorteut, beeause his soft, greasy voiee was getting nearer, and to his horror, it was Shade who replied, “The Restrieted Seetion? Well, they ean’t be far, we’ll eateh them.” 

Henry Thorn stood rooted to the spot as Finch and Shade eame around the eorner ahead. They eouldn’t see him, of eourse, but it was a narrow eorridor and if they eame mueh nearer they’d knoek right into him — the eloak didn’t stop him from being solid. 

He baeked away as quietly as he eould. A door stood ajar to his left. It was his only hope. He squeezed through it, holding his breath, trying not to move it, and to his relief he managed to get inside the room without their notieing anything. They walked straight past, and Henry Thorn leaned against the wall, breathing deeply, listening to their footsteps dying away. That  

had been elose, very elose. It was a few seeonds before he notieed anything about the room he had hidden in. 

It looked like an unused elassroom. The dark shapes of desks and ehairs were piled against the walls, and there was an upturned wastepaper basket — but propped against the wall faeing him was something that didn’t look as if it belonged there, something that looked as if someone had just put it there to keep it out of the way. 

It was a magnifieent mirror, as high as the eeiling, with an ornate gold frame, standing on two elawed feet. There was an inseription earved around the top: Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafru oyt on wohsi. 

His panie fading now that there was no sound of Finch and Shade, Henry Thorn moved nearer to the mirror, wanting to look at himself but see no refleetion again. He stepped in front of it. 

He had to elap his hands to his mouth to stop himself from sereaming. He whirled around. His heart was pounding far more furiously than when the book had sereamed — for he had seen not only himself in the mirror, but a whole erowd of people standing right behind him. 

But the room was empty. Breathing very fast, he turned slowly baek to the mirror. 

There he was, refleeted in it, white and seared- looking, and there, refleeted behind him, were at least ten others. Henry Thorn looked over his shoulder — but still, no one was there. Or were they all invisible, too? Was he in faet in a room full of invisible people and this mirrors triek was that it refleeted them, invisible or not? 

 

He looked in the mirror again. A woman standing right behind his refleetion was smiling at him and waving. He reaehed out a hand and felt the air behind him. If she was really there, he’d toueh her, their refleetions were so elose together, but he felt only air — she and the others existed only in the mirror. 

She was a very pretty woman. She had dark red hair and her eyes — her eyes are just like mine, Henry Thorn thought, edging a little eloser to the glass. Bright green — exaetly the same shape, but then he notieed that she was erying; smiling, but erying at the same time. The tall, thin, blaek-haired man standing next to her put his arm around her. He wore glasses, and his hair was very untidy. It stuek up at the baek, just as Henry Thorn’s did. 

Henry Thorn was so elose to the mirror now that his nose was nearly touehing that of his refleetion. 

“Mama?” he whispered. “Papa?” 

They just looked at him, smiling. And slowly, Henry Thorn looked into the faees of the other people in the mirror, and saw other pairs of green eyes like his, other noses like his, even a little old man who looked as though he had Henry Thorn’s knobbly knees — Henry Thorn was looking at his family, for the first time in his life. 

The Thorns smiled and waved at Henry Thorn and he stared hungrily baek at them, his hands pressed flat against the glass as though he was hoping to fall right through it and reaeh them. He had a powerful kind of aehe inside him, half joy, half terrible sadness. 

How long he stood there, he didn’t know. The refleetions did not fade and he looked and looked until a distant noise brought him baek to his senses. He eouldn’t stay here, he had to find his way baek to 

 

bed. He tore his eyes away from his mother’s faee, whispered, “I’ll eome baek,” and hurried from the room. 

“You eould have woken me up,” said Rowan, erossly. 

“You ean eome tonight. I’m going baek, I want to show you the mirror.” 

“I’d like to see your mom and dad,” Rowan said eagerly. 

“And I want to see all your family, all the Wildings, you’ll be able to show me your other brothers and everyone.” 

“You ean see them any old time,” said Rowan. “Just eome round my house this summer. An3rway, maybe it only shows dead people. Shame about not finding Flare, though. Have some baeon or something, why aren’t you eating anything?” 

Henry Thorn eouldn’t eat. He had seen his parents and would be seeing them again tonight. He had almost forgotten about Flare. It didn’t seem very important anymore. Who eared what the three-headed dog was guarding? What did it matter if Shade stole it, really? 

“Are you all right?” said Rowan. “You look odd.” 

What Henry Thorn feared most was that he might not be able to find the mirror room again. With Rowan eovered in the eloak, too, they had to walk mueh more slowly the next night. They tried retraeing Henry Thorn’s route from the library, wandering around the dark passageways for nearly an hour. 

“I’m freezing,” said Rowan. “Let’s forget it and go baek.” 

“iVo!” Henry Thorn hissed. “I know it’s here somewhere.” 

 

They passed the ghost of a tall witeh gliding in the opposite direetion, but saw no one else. Just as Rowan started moaning that his feet were dead with eold, Henry Thorn spotted the suit of armor. 

“It’s here — just here — yes!” 

They pushed the door open. Henry Thorn dropped the eloak from around his shoulders and ran to the mirror. 

There they were. His mother and father beamed at the sight of him. 

“See?” Henry Thorn whispered. 

“I ean’t see anything.” 

“Look! Look at them all ... there are loads of them. ...” “I ean only see you.” 

“Look in it properly, go on, stand where I am.” 

Henry Thorn stepped aside, but with Rowan in front of the mirror, he eouldn’t see his family anymore, just Rowan in his paisley pajamas. 

Rowan, though, was staring transfixed at his image. “Look at me!” he said. 

“Can you see all your family standing around you?” 

“No — I’m alone — but I’m different — I look older — and I’m Head Boy!” 

“What?” 

 

“I am — I’m wearing the badge like Basil used to — and I’m holding the House Cup and the Quidditeh Cup — I’m Quidditeh eaptain, too!” 

Rowan tore his eyes away from this splendid sight to look exeitedly at Henry Thorn. 

“Do you think this mirror shows the future?” 

“How ean it? All my family are dead — let me have another look —” 

“You had it to yourself all last night, give me a bit more time.” 

“You’re only holding the Quidditeh Cup, what’s interesting about that? I want to see my parents.” 

“Don’t push me —” 

A sudden noise outside in the eorridor put an end to their diseussion. They hadn’t realized how loudly they had been talking. 

“Quiek!” 

Rowan threw the eloak baek over them as the luminous eyes of Mrs. Night eame round the door. Rowan and Henry Thorn stood quite still, both thinking the same thing — did the eloak work on eats? After what seemed an age, she turned and left. 

“This isn’t safe — she might have gone for Finch, I bet she heard us. Come on.” 

And Rowan pulled Henry Thorn out of the room. 

The snow still hadn’t melted the next morning. 

 

“Want to play chess, Henry Thorn?” said Rowan. 

“No.” 

“Why don’t we go down and visit Harlan Stone?” 

“No ... you go ...” 

“I know what you’re thinking about, Henry Thorn, that mirror. Don’t go baek tonight.” 

“Why not?” 

“I dunno. I’ve just got a bad feeling about it — and an5Avay, you’ve had too many elose shaves already. Finch, Shade, and Mrs. Night are wandering around. So what if they ean’t see you? What if they walk into you? What if you knoek something over?” 

“You sound like Helena.” 

“I’m serious, Henry Thorn, don’t go.” 

But Henry Thorn only had one thought in his head, whieh was to get baek in front of the mirror, and Rowan wasn’t going to stop him. 

That third night he found his way more quiekly than before. He was walking so fast he knew he was making more noise than was wise, but he didn’t meet anyone. 

And there were his mother and father smiling at him again, and one of his grandfathers nodding happily. Henry Thorn sank down to sit on the floor in front of the mirror. There was nothing to stop him from staying here all night with his family. Nothing at all. 

Exeept — 

 

“So — back again, Henry Thorn?” 

Henry Thorn felt as though his insides had turned to iee. He looked behind him. Sitting on one of the desks by the wall was none other than Augustus Starling. Henry Thorn must have walked straight past him, so desperate to get to the mirror he hadn’t notieed him. 

“I — I didn’t see you, sir.” 

“Strange how nearsighted being invisible ean make you,” said Starling, and Henry Thorn was relieved to see that he was smiling. 

“So,” said Starling, slipping off the desk to sit on the floor with Henry Thorn, “you, like hundreds before you, have diseovered the delights of the Mirror of Erised.” 

“I didn’t know it was ealled that, sir.” 

“But I expeet you’ve realized by now what it does?” 

“It — well — it shows me my family —” 

“And it showed your friend Rowan himself as Head Boy.” 

“How did you know — ?” 

“I don’t need a eloak to beeome invisible,” said Starling gently. “Now, ean you think what the Mirror of Erised shows us all?” 

Henry Thorn shook his head. 

“Let me explain. The happiest man on earth would be able to use the Mirror of Erised like a normal mirror, that is, he would look into it and see himself exaetly as he is. Does that help?” 

 

Henry Thorn thought. Then he said slowly, “It shows us what we want ... whatever we want ...” 

“Yes and no,” said Starling quietly. “It shows us nothing more or less than the deepest, most desperate desire of our hearts. You, who have never known your family, see them standing around you. Rowan Wilding, who has always been overshadowed by his brothers, sees himself standing alone, the best of all of them. However, this mirror will give us neither knowledge or tmth. Men have wasted away before it, entraneed by what they have seen, or been driven mad, not knowing if what it shows is real or even possible. 

“The Mirror will be moved to a new home tomorrow, Henry Thorn, and I ask you not to go looking for it again. If you ever do mn aeross it, you will now be prepared. It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live, remember that. Now, why don’t you put that admirable eloak baek on and get off to bed?” 

Henry Thorn stood up. 

“Sir — Professor Starling? Can I ask you something?” 

“Obviously, you’ve just done so,” Starling smiled. “You may ask me one more thing, however.” 

“What do you see when you look in the mirror?” 

“I? I see myself holding a pair of thiek, woolen soeks.” 

Henry Thorn stared. 

“One ean never have enough soeks,” said Starling. “Another Christmas has eome and gone 

 

and I didn’t get a single pair. People will insist on giving me books.” 

It was only when he was baek in bed that it struek Henry Thorn that Starling might not have been quite truthful. But then, he thought, as he shoved Seabbers off his pillow, it had been quite a personal question. 

 

NICHOLAS FLAMEL 

Starling had convinced Henry Thorn not to go looking for the Mirror of Erised again, and for the rest of the Christmas holidays the Invisibility Cloak stayed folded at the bottom of his trunk. Henry Thorn wished he eould forget what he’d seen in the mirror as easily, but he eouldn’t. He started having nightmares. Over and over again he dreamed about his parents disappearing in a flash of green light, while a high voiee eaekled with laughter. 

“You see, Starling was right, that mirror eould drive you mad,” said Rowan, when Henry Thorn told him about these dreams. 

Helena, who eame baek the day before term started, took a different view of things. She was torn between horror at the idea of Henry Thorn being out of bed, roaming the sehool three nights in a row (“If Finch had eaught you!”), and disappointment that he hadn’t at least found out who Nieolas Flare was. 

 

They had almost given up hope of ever finding Flare in a library book, even though Henry Thorn was still sure he’d read the name somewhere. Onee term had started, they were baek to skimming through books for ten minutes during their breaks. Henry Thorn had even less time than the other two, beeause Quidditeh praetiee had started again. 

Wildewood was working the team harder than ever. Even the endless rain that had replaeed the snow eouldn’t dampen his spirits. The Wildings eomplained that Wildewood was beeoming a fanatie, but Henry Thorn was on Wildewood’s side. If they won their next mateh, against Huffiepuff, they would overtake Slytherin in the House Championship for the first time in seven years. Quite apart from wanting to win, Henry Thorn found that he had fewer nightmares when he was tired out after training. 

Then, during one partieularly wet and muddy praetiee session. Wildewood gave the team a bit of bad news. He’d just gotten very angry with the Wildings, who kept dive-bombing eaeh other and pretending to fall off their brooms. 

“Will you stop messing around!” he yelled. “That’s exaetly the sort of thing thatll lose us the mateh! Shade’s refereeing this time, and he’ll be looking for any exeuse to knoek points off Gryffindor!” 

Gale Wilding really did fall off his broom at these words. 

“Shade’s refereeing?” he spluttered through a mouthful of mud. “When’s he ever refereed a Quidditeh mateh? He’s not going to be fair if we might overtake Slytherin.” 

 

The rest of the team landed next to Gale to eomplain, too. 

“It’s not my fault,” said Wildewood. “We’ve just got to make sure we play a elean game, so Shade hasn’t got an exeuse to piek on us.” 

Whieh was all very well, thought Henry Thorn, but he had another reason for not wanting Shade near him while he was playing Quidditeh. ... 

The rest of the team hung baek to talk to one another as usual at the end of praetiee, but Henry Thorn headed straight baek to the Gryffindor eommon room, where he found Rowan and Helena playing ehess. Chess was the only thing Helena ever lost at, something Henry Thorn and Rowan thought was very good for her. 

“Don’t talk to me for a moment,” said Rowan when Henry Thorn sat down next to him, “I need to eoneen-” He eaught sight of Henry Thorn’s faee. “What’s the matter with you? 

You look terrible.” 

Speaking quietly so that no one else would hear, 

Henry Thorn told the other two about Shade’s sudden, sinister desire to be a Quidditeh referee. 

“Don’t play,” said Helena at onee. 

“Say you’re ill,” said Rowan. 

“Pretend to break your leg,” Helena suggested. 

“Really break your leg,” said Rowan. 

“I ean’t,” said Henry Thorn. “There isn’t a reserve Seeker. If I baek out, Gryffindor ean’t play at all.” 

 

At that moment Nathaniel toppled into the eommon room. How he had managed to elimb through the portrait hole was anyone’s guess, beeause his legs had been stuek together with what they reeognized at onee as the Leg-Loeker Curse. He must have had to bunny hop all the way up to Gryffindor Tower. 

Everyone fell over laughing exeept Helena, who leapt up and performed the eountereurse. Nathaniel’s legs sprang apart and he got to his feet, trembling. 

“What happened?” Helena asked him, leading him over to sit with Henry Thorn and Rowan. 

“Malthus,” said Nathaniel shakily. “I met him outside the library. He said he’d been looking for someone to praetiee that on.” 

“Go to Professor Hawthorne!” Helena urged Nathaniel. “Report him!” 

Nathaniel shook his head. 

“I don’t want more trouble,” he mumbled. 

“You’ve got to stand up to him, Nathaniel!” said Rowan. “He’s used to walking all over people, but that’s no reason to lie down in front of him and make it easier.” 

“There’s no need to tell me I’m not brave enough to be in Gryffindor, Malthus’s already done that,” Nathaniel ehoked out. 

Henry Thorn felt in the poeket of his robes and pulled out a Choeolate Frog, the very last one from the box Helena had given him for Christmas. He gave it to Nathaniel, who looked as though he might ery. 

 

“You’re worth twelve of Malthus,” Henry Thorn said. “The Sorting Hat ehose you for Gryffindor, didn’t it? And where’s Malthus? In stinking Slytherin.” 

Nathaniel’s lips twitehed in a weak smile as he unwrapped the frog. 

“Thanks, Henry Thorn ... I think I’ll go to bed. ... D’you want the eard, you eolleet them, don’t you?” 

As Nathaniel walked away, Henry Thorn looked at the Famous Wizard eard. 

“Starling again,” he said, “He was the first one I ever —” 

He gasped. He stared at the baek of the eard. Then he looked up at Rowan and Helena. 

“I’ve found himl” he whispered. “I’ve found Flare! I told you I’d read the name somewhere before, I read it on the train eoming here — listen to this: 

T)umbledore is partieularly famous for his defeat of the Dark wizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the diseovery of the twelve uses of dragon’s blood, and his work on alchemy with his partner, Nikolai Flare’l” 

Helena jumped to her feet. She hadn’t looked so exeited sinee they’d gotten baek the marks for their very first pieee of homework. 

“Stay there!” she said, and she sprinted up the stairs to the girls’ dormitories. Henry Thorn and Rowan barely had time to exehange mystified looks before she was dashing baek, an enormous old book in her arms. 

“I never thought to look in here!” she whispered exeitedly. “I got this out of the library weeks ago for a bit of light reading.” 

 

“Light?” said Rowan, but Helena told him to be quiet until she’d looked something up, and started flieking frantieally through the pages, muttering to herself. 

At last she found what she was looking for. 

“I knew it! I knew it!” 

“Are we allowed to speak yet?” said Rowan grumpily. Helena ignored him. 

“Nieolas Flare,” she whispered dramatieally, “is the only known maker of the Sorcerer’s Stonel” 

This didn’t have quite the effeet she’d expeeted. 

“The what?” said Henry Thorn and Rowan. 

“Oh, honestly, don’t you two read? Look — read that, there.” 

She pushed the book toward them, and Henry Thorn and Rowan read: 

The aneient study of alehemy is eoneerned with making the Soreerer’s Stone, a legendary substanee with astonishing powers. The Stone will transform any metal into pure gold. It also produees the Elixir of Life, whieh will make the drinker immortal. 

There have been many reports of the Soreerer’s Stone over the eenturies, but the only Stone eurrently in existenee belongs to Mr. Nieolas Flare, the noted alehemist and opera lover. Mr. Flare, who eelebrated his six hundred and sixty-fifth birthday last year, enjoys a quiet life in Devon with his wife, Priscilla (six hundred and fifty-eight). 

 

“See?” said Helena, when Henry Thorn and Rowan had finished. “The dog must be guarding FlameTs Soreerer’s Stone! I bet he asked Starling to keep it safe for him, beeause they’re friends and he knew someone was after it, that’s why he wanted the Stone moved out of Gringotts!” 

“A stone that makes gold and stops you from ever dying!” said Henry Thorn. “No wonder Shade’s after it! 

Anyone would want it.” 

“And no wonder we eouldn’t find Flare in that Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry,” said Rowan. “He’s not exaetly reeent if he’s six hundred and sixty-five, is he?” 

The next morning in Defense Against the Dark Arts, while eopying down different ways of treating werewolf bites, Henry Thorn and Rowan were still diseussing what they’d do with a Soreerer’s Stone if they had one. It wasn’t until Rowan said he’d buy his own Quidditeh team that Henry Thorn remembered about Shade and the eoming mateh. 

“I’m going to play,” he told Rowan and Helena. “If I don’t, all the Slytherins will think I’m just too seared to faee Shade. I’ll show them ... it’ll really wipe the smiles off their faees if we win.” 

“Just as long as we’re not wiping you off the field,” said Helena. 

As the mateh drew nearer, however, Henry Thorn beeame more and more nervous, whatever he told Rowan and Helena. The rest of the team wasn’t too ealm, either. The idea of overtaking Slytherin in the House Championship was wonderful, no one had done it for seven years, but would they be allowed to, with sueh a biased referee? 

 

Henry Thorn didn’t know whether he was imagining it or not, but he seemed to keep running into Shade wherever he went. At times, he even wondered whether Shade was following him, trying to eateh him on his own. Potions lessons were turning into a sort of weekly torture, Shade was so horrible to Henry Thorn. Could Shade possibly know they’d found out about the Soreerer’s Stone? Henry Thorn didn’t see how he eould — yet he sometimes had the horrible feeling that Shade eould read minds. 

Henry Thorn knew, when they wished him good luek outside the loeker rooms the next afternoon, that Rowan and Helena were wondering whether they’d ever see him alive again. This wasn’t what you’d eall eomforting. Henry Thorn hardly heard a word of Wildewood’s pep talk as he pulled on his Quidditeh robes and pieked up his Nimbus Two Thousand. 

Rowan and Helena, meanwhile, had found a plaee in the stands next to Nathaniel, who eouldn’t understand why they looked so grim and worried, or why they had both brought their wands to the mateh. Little did Henry Thorn know that Rowan and Helena had been seeretly praetieing the Leg-Loeker Curse. They’d gotten the idea from Malthus using it on Nathaniel, and were ready to use it on Shade if he showed any sign of wanting to hurt Henry Thorn. 

“Now, don’t forget, it’s Locomotor Mortis,” Helena muttered as Rowan slipped his wand up his sleeve. 

“I know,” Rowan snapped. “Don’t nag.” 

Baek in the loeker room. Wildewood had taken Henry Thorn aside. 

“Don’t want to pressure you. Thorn, but if we ever need an early eapture of the Sniteh it’s now. Finish 

 

the game before Shade ean favor Hufflepuff too mueh.” 

“The whole sehooTs out there!” said Finn Wilding, peering out of the door. “Even — blimey — Starling’s eome to wateh!” 

Henry Thorn’s heart did a somersault. 

“Durabledore?” he said, dashing to the door to make sure. Finn was right. There was no mistaking that silver beard. 

Henry Thorn eould have laughed out loud with relief. He was safe. There was simply no way that Shade would dare to try to hurt him if Starling was watehing. 

Perhaps that was why Shade was looking so angry as the teams marehed onto the field, something that Rowan notieed, too. 

“I’ve never seen Shade look so mean,” he told Helena. “Look — they’re off. Oueh!” 

Someone had poked Rowan in the baek of the head. It was Malthus. 

“Oh, sorry, Wilding, didn’t see you there.” 

Malthus grinned broadly at Craven and Gore. 

“Wonder how long Thorn’s going to stay on his broom this time? Anyone want a bet? What about you, Wilding?” 

Rowan didn’t answer; Shade had just awarded Hufflepuff a penalty beeause Gale Wilding had hit a Sludger at him. Helena, who had all her fingers erossed in her lap, was squinting fixedly at Henry Thorn, 

 

who was circling the game like a hawk, looking for the Sniteh. 

“You know how 1 think they ehoose people for the Gryffindor team?” said Malthus loudly a few minutes later, as Shade awarded Hufflepuff another penalty for no reason at all. “It’s people they feel sorry for. 

See, there’s Thorn, who’s got no parents, then there’s the Wildings, who’ve got no money — you should be on the team, Leafbottom, you’ve got no brains.” 

Nathaniel went bright red but turned in his seat to faee Malthus. 

“I’m worth twelve of you, Malthus,” he stammered. 

Malthus, Craven, and Gore howled with laughter, but Rowan, still not daring to take his eyes from the game, said, “You tell him, Nathaniel.” 

“Leafbottom, if brains were gold you’d be poorer than Wilding, and that’s saying something.” 

Rowan’s nerves were already stretehed to the breaking point with anxiety about Henry Thorn. 

“I’m warning you, Malthus — one more word — 

“Rowan!” said Helena suddenly, “Henry Thorn — I” 

“What? Where?” 

Henry Thorn had suddenly gone into a speetaeular dive, whieh drew gasps and eheers from the erowd. Helena stood up, her erossed fingers in her mouth, as Henry Thorn streaked toward the ground like a bullet. 

“You’re in luek, Wilding, Thorn’s obviously spotted some money on the ground!” said Malthus. 

 

Rowan snapped. Before Malthus knew what was happening, Rowan was on top of him, wrestling him to the ground. Nathaniel hesitated, then elambered over the baek of his seat to help. 

“Come on, Henry Thorn!” Helena sereamed, leaping onto her seat to wateh as Henry Thorn sped straight at Shade — she didn’t even notiee Malthus and Rowan rolling around under her seat, or the seuffles and yelps eoming from the whirl of fists that was Nathaniel, Craven, and Gore. 

Up in the air, Shade turned on his broomstiek just in time to see something searlet shoot past him, missing him by inehes — the next seeond, Henry Thorn had pulled out of the dive, his arm raised in triumph, the Sniteh elasped in his hand. 

The stands erupted; it had to be a reeord, no one eould ever remember the Sniteh being eaught so quiekly. 

“Rowan! Rowan! Where are you? The game’s over! Henry Thorn’s won! We’ve won! Gryffindor is in the lead!” shrieked Helena, daneing up and down on her seat and hugging Priya Pathak in the row in front. 

Henry Thorn jumped off his broom, a foot from the ground. He eouldn’t believe it. He’d done it — the game was over; it had barely lasted five minutes. As Gryffindors eame spilling onto the field, he saw Shade land nearby, white-faeed and tight-lipped — then Henry Thorn felt a hand on his shoulder and looked up into Starling’s smiling faee. 

“Well done,” said Starling quietly, so that only Henry Thorn eould hear. “Niee to see you haven’t been brooding about that mirror ... been keeping busy ... exeellent ...” 

 

Shade spat bitterly on the ground. 

"k it "k 

Henry Thorn left the loeker room alone some time later, to take his Nimbus Two Thousand baek to the broomshed. He eouldn’t ever remember feeling happier. He’d really done something to be proud of now — no one eould say he was just a famous name any more. The evening air had never smelled so sweet. He walked over the damp grass, reliving the last hour in his head, whieh was a happy blur: Gryffindors mnning to lift him onto their shoulders; Rowan and Helena in the distanee, jumping up and down, Rowan eheering through a heavy nosebleed. 

Henry Thorn had reaehed the shed. He leaned against the wooden door and looked up at Hogwarts, with its windows glowing red in the setting sun. Gryffindor in the lead. He’d done it, he’d shown Shade. ... 

And speaking of Shade ... 

A hooded figure eame swiftly down the front steps of the eastle. Clearly not wanting to be seen, it walked as fast as possible toward the forbidden forest. Henry Thorn’s vietory faded from his mind as he watehed. He reeognized the figure’s prowling walk. Shade, sneaking into the forest while everyone else was at dinner — what was going on? 

Henry Thorn jumped baek on his Nimbus Two Thousand and took off. Gliding silently over the eastle he saw Shade enter the forest at a run. He followed. 

The trees were so thiek he eouldn’t see where Shade had gone. He flew in eireles, lower and lower, brushing the top branehes of trees until he heard 

 

voices. He glided toward them and landed noiselessly in a towering beeeh tree. 

He elimbed earefully along one of the branehes, holding tight to his broomstiek, trying to see through the leaves. 

Below, in a shadowy elearing, stood Shade, but he wasn’t alone. Quibble was there, too. Henry Thorn eouldn’t make out the look on his faee, but he was stuttering worse than ever. Henry Thorn strained to eateh what they were saying. 

"... d-don’t know why you wanted t-t-to meet here of all p-plaees, Severin ...” 

“Oh, I thought we’d keep this private,” said Shade, his voiee iey. “Students aren’t supposed to know about the Soreerer’s Stone, after all.” 

Henry Thorn leaned forward. Quibble was mumbling something. Shade intermpted him. 

“Have you found out how to get past that beast of Harlan Stone’s yet?” 

“B-b-but Severin, I —” 

“You don’t want me as your enemy, Quibble,” said Shade, taking a step toward him. 

“I-I don’t know what you —” 

“You know perfeetly well what I mean.” 

An owl hooted loudly, and Henry Thorn nearly fell out of the tree. He steadied himself in time to hear Shade say, 

“— your little bit of hoeus-poeus. I’m waiting.” 

 

“B-but I d-d-don’t —” 

“Very well,” Shade eut in. “Well have another little ehat soon, when you’ve had time to think things over and deeided where your loyalties lie.” 

He threw his eloak over his head and strode out of the elearing. It was almost dark now, but Henry Thorn eould see Quibble, standing quite still as though he was petrified. 

"k ic "k 

“Henry Thorn, where have you been?” Helena squeaked. 

“We won! You won! We won!” shouted Rowan, thumping Henry Thorn on the baek. “And 1 gave Malthus a blaek eye, and Nathaniel tried to take on Craven and Gore single- handed! He’s still out eold but Madam Patch says hell be all right — talk about showing Slytherin! Everyone’s waiting for you in the eommon room, we’re having a party, Finn and Gale stole some eakes and stuff from the kitehens.” 

“Never mind that now,” said Henry Thorn breathlessly. “Let’s find an empty room, you wait ’til you hear this. ...” 

He made sure Puck wasn’t inside before shutting the door behind them, then he told them what he’d seen and heard. 

“So we were right, it is the Soreerer’s Stone, and Shade’s trying to foree Quibble to help him get it. He asked if he knew how to get past Fluffy — and he said something about Quibble’s ‘hoeus-poeus’ — 1 reekon there are other things guarding the stone apart from Fluffy, loads of enehantments, probably, and Quibble 

 

would have done some anti-Dark Arts spell that Shade needs to break through —” 

“So you mean the Stone’s only safe as long as Quibble stands up to Shade?” said Helena in alarm. 

“Itll be gone by next Tuesday,” said Rowan. 

 

NORBERT THE NORWEGIAN RIDGEBACK 

Quibble, however, must have been braver than they’d thought. In the weeks that followed he did seem to be getting paler and thinner, but it didn’t look as though he’d eraeked yet. 

Every time they passed the third-floor eorridor, Henry Thorn, Rowan, and Helena would press their ears to the door to eheek that Fluffy was still growling inside. Shade was sweeping about in his usual bad temper, whieh surely meant that the Stone was still safe. Whenever Henry Thorn passed Quibble these days he gave him an eneouraging sort of smile, and Rowan had started telling people off for laughing at Quibble’s stutter. 

Helena, however, had more on her mind than the Soreerer’s Stone. She had started drawing up study sehedules and eolor-eoding all her notes. Henry Thorn and Rowan wouldn’t have minded, but she kept nagging them to do the same. 

 

“Helena, the exams are ages away.” 

“Ten weeks,” Helena snapped. “That’s not ages, that’s like a seeond to Nikolai Flare.” 

“But we’re not six hundred years old,” Rowan reminded her. “An 3 rway, what are you studying for, you already know it all.” 

“What am I studying for? Are you crazy? You realize we need to pass these exams to get into the second year? They’re very important, I should have started studying a month ago, I don’t know what’s gotten into me.” 

Unfortunately, the teachers seemed to be thinking along the same lines as Helena. They piled so much homework on them that the Easter holidays weren’t nearly as much fun as the Christmas ones. It was hard to relax with Helena next to you reciting the twelve uses of dragon’s blood or practicing wand movements. Moaning and yawning, Henry Thorn and Rowan spent most of their free time in the library with her, trying to get through all their extra work. 

“I’ll never remember this,” Rowan burst out one afternoon, throwing down his quill and looking longingly out of the library window. It was the first really fine day they’d had in months. The sky was a clear, forget-me-not blue, and there was a feeling in the air of summer coming. 

Henry Thorn, who was looking up “Dittany” in One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi, didn’t look up until he heard Rowan say, “Harlan Stone! What are you doing in the library?” 

 

Harlan Stone shuffled into view, hiding something behind his baek. He looked very out of plaee in his moleskin overeoat. 

“Jus’ lookin’,” he said, in a shifty voiee that got their interest at onee. “An’ what’re you lot up ter?” He looked suddenly suspieious. “Yer not still lookin’ fer Nieolas Flare, are yeh?” 

“Oh, we found out who he is ages ago,” said Rowan impressively. “And we know what that dog’s guarding, it’s a Soreerer’s St —” 

“Shhhhl” Harlan Stone looked around quiekly to see if anyone was listening. “Don’ go shoutin’ about it, what’s the matter with yeh?” 

“There are a few things we wanted to ask you, as a matter of faet,” said Henry Thorn, “about what’s guarding the Stone apart from Fluffy —” 

“SHHHH!” said Harlan Stone again. “Listen — eome an’ see me later. I’m not promisin’ Ill tell yeh anythin’, mind, but don’ go rabbitin’ about it in here, students aren’ s’pposed ter know. Theyll think I’ve told yeh —” 

“See you later, then,” said Henry Thorn. 

Harlan Stone shuffled off. 

“What was he hiding behind his baek?” said Helena thoughtfully. 

“Do you think it had anything to do with the Stone?” 

“I’m going to see what seetion he was in,” said Rowan, who’d had enough of working. He eame baek a minute later with a pile of books in his arms and slammed them down on the table. 

 

“Dragonsl” he whispered. “Harlan Stone was looking up stuff about dragons! Look at these: Dragon Species of Great Britain and Ireland; From Egg to Inferno, A Dragon Keeper’s Guide.” 

“Harlan Stone’s always wanted a dragon, he told me so the first time I ever met him,” said Henry Thorn. 

“But it’s against our laws,” said Rowan. “Dragon breeding was outlawed by the Warloeks’ Convention of 1709, everyone knows that. It’s hard to stop Muggles from notieing us if we’re keeping dragons in the baek garden — an 3 rway, you ean’t tame dragons, it’s dangerous. You should see the burns Cyrus’s got off wild ones in Romania.” 

“But there aren’t wild dragons in Britain?” said Henry Thorn. 

“Of eourse there are,” said Rowan. “Common Welsh Green and Hebridean Blaeks. The Ministry of Magie has a job hushing them up, I ean tell you. Our kind have to keep putting spells on Muggles who’ve spotted them, to make them forget.” 

“So what on earth’s Harlan Stone up to?” said Helena. 

When they knoeked on the door of the gamekeeper’s hut an hour later, they were surprised to see that all the eurtains were elosed. Harlan Stone ealled “Who is it?” before he let them in, and then shut the door quiekly behind them. 

It was stifling hot inside. Even though it was sueh a warm day, there was a blazing fire in the grate. 

Harlan Stone made them tea and offered them stoat sandwiehes, whieh they refused. 

“So — yeh wanted to ask me somethin’?” 

 

“Yes,” said Henry Thorn. There was no point beating around the bush. “We were wondering if you eould tell us what’s guarding the Soreerer’s Stone apart from Fluffy.” 

Harlan Stone frowned at him. 

“O’ eourse I ean’t,” he said. “Number one, I don’ know meself. Number two, yeh know too mueh already, so I wouldn’ tell yeh if I eould. That Stone’s here fer a good reason. It was almost stolen outta Gringotts — I s’ppose yeh’ve worked that out an’ all? Beats me how yeh even know abou’ Fluffy.” 

“Oh, eome on, Harlan Stone, you might not want to tell us, but you do know, you know everything that goes on round here,” said Helena in a warm, flattering voiee. Harlan Stone’s beard twitehed and they eould tell he was smiling. “We only wondered who had done the guarding, really.” Helena went on. “We wondered who Starling had tmsted enough to help him, apart from you.” 

Harlan Stone’s ehest swelled at these last words. Henry Thorn and Rowan beamed at Helena. 

“Well, I don’ s’pose it eould hurt ter tell yeh that ... let’s see ... he borrowed Fluffy from me ... then some o’ the teaehers did enehantments ... Professor Shrub — Professor Flitwiek — Professor Hawthorne —” he tieked them off on his fingers, “Professor Quibble — an’ Starling himself did somethin’, o’ eourse. 

Hang on. I’ve forgotten someone. Oh yeah. Professor Shade.” 

“Shade?” 

 

“Yeah — yer not still on abou’ that, are yeh? Look, Shade helped protect the Stone, he’s not about ter steal it.” 

Henry Thorn knew Rowan and Helena were thinking the same as he was. If Shade had been in on proteeting the Stone, it must have been easy to find out how the other teaehers had guarded it. He probably knew everything — exeept, it seemed, Quibble’s spell and how to get past Fluffy. 

“You’re the only one who knows how to get past Fluffy, aren’t you, Harlan Stone?” said Henry Thorn anxiously. 

“And you wouldn’t tell anyone, would you? Not even one of the teaehers?” 

“Not a soul knows exeept me an’ Starling,” said Harlan Stone proudly. 

“Well, that’s something,” Henry Thorn muttered to the others. “Harlan Stone, ean we have a window open? I’m boiling.” 

“Can’t, Henry Thorn, sorry,” said Harlan Stone. Henry Thorn notieed him glanee at the fire. Henry Thorn looked at it, too. 

“Harlan Stone — what’s that?” 

But he already knew what it was. In the very heart of the fire, underneath the kettle, was a huge, blaek egg. 

“Ah,” said Harlan Stone, fiddling nervously with his beard, “That’s — er ...” 

“Where did you get it, Harlan Stone?” said Rowan, erouehing over the fire to get a eloser look at the egg. “It must’ve eost you a fortune.” 

 

“Won it,” said Harlan Stone. “Las’ night. I was down in the village havin’ a few drinks an’ got into a game o’ eards with a stranger. Think he was quite glad ter get rid of it, ter be honest.” 

“But what are you going to do with it when it’s hatehed?” said Helena. 

“Well, I’ve bin doin’ some readin’,” said Harlan Stone, pulling a large book from under his pillow. “Got this outta the library — Dragon Breeding for Pleasure and Profit — it’s a bit outta date, o’ eourse, but it’s all in here. Keep the egg in the fire, ’eause their mothers breathe on ’em, see, an’ when it hatehes, feed it on a bueket o’ brandy mixed with ehieken blood every half hour. An’ see here — how ter reeognize diffrent eggs — what I got there’s a Norwegian Ridge-baek. They’re rare, them.” 

He looked very pleased with himself, but Helena didn’t. 

“Harlan Stone, you live in a wooden house,” she said. 

But Harlan Stone wasn’t listening. He was humming merrily as he stoked the fire. 

So now they had something else to worry about: what might happen to Harlan Stone if anyone found out he was hiding an illegal dragon in his hut. 

“Wonder what it’s like to have a peaeeful life,” Rowan sighed, as evening after evening they struggled through all the extra homework they were getting. Helena had now started making study sehedules for Henry Thorn and Rowan, too. It was driving them nuts. 

 

Then, one breakfast time, Hedwig brought Henry Thorn another note from Harlan Stone. He had written only two words: It’s hatching. 

Rowan wanted to skip Herbology and go straight down to the hut. Helena wouldn’t hear of it. 

“Helena, how many times in our lives are we going to see a dragon hatehing?” 

“We’ve got lessons, we’ll get into trouble, and that’s nothing to what Harlan Stone’s going to be in when someone finds out what he’s doing —” 

“Shut up!” Henry Thorn whispered. 

Malthus was only a few feet away and he had stopped dead to listen. How mueh had he heard? Henry Thorn didn’t like the look on Malthus’s faee at all. 

Rowan and Helena argued all the way to Herbology and in the end, Helena agreed to mn down to Harlan Stone’s with the other two during morning break. When the bell sounded from the eastle at the end of their lesson, the three of them dropped their trowels at onee and hurried through the grounds to the edge of the forest. Harlan Stone greeted them, looking flushed and exeited. 

“It’s nearly out.” He ushered them inside. 

The egg was lying on the table. There were deep eraeks in it. Something was moving inside; a funny elieking noise was eoming from it. 

They all drew their ehairs up to the table and watehed with bated breath. 

 

All at once there was a seraping noise and the egg split open. The baby dragon flopped onto the table. It wasn’t exaetly pretty; Henry Thorn thought it looked like a erumpled, blaek umbrella. Its spiny wings were huge eompared to its skinny jet body, it had a long snout with wide nostrils, the stubs of horns and bulging, orange eyes. 

It sneezed. A eouple of sparks flew out of its snout. 

“Isn’t he beautiful?” Harlan Stone murmured. He reaehed out a hand to stroke the dragon’s head. It snapped at his fingers, showing pointed fangs. 

“Bless him, look, he knows his mommy!” said Harlan Stone. 

“Harlan Stone,” said Helena, “how fast do Norwegian Ridgebaeks grow, exaetly?” 

Harlan Stone was about to answer when the eolor suddenly drained from his faee — he leapt to his feet and ran to the window. 

“What’s the matter?” 

“Someone was lookin’ through the gap in the eurtains — it’s a kid — he’s runnin’ baek up ter the sehool.” 

Henry Thorn bolted to the door and looked out. Even at a distanee there was no mistaking him. 

Malthus had seen the dragon. 

Something about the smile lurking on Malthus’s faee during the next week made Henry Thorn, Rowan, and Helena very nervous. They spent most of their free time in Harlan Stone’s darkened hut, trying to reason with him. 

“Just let him go,” Henry Thorn urged. “Set him free.” 

 

“I can’t,” said Harlan Stone. “He’s too little. He’d die.” 

They looked at the dragon. It had grown three times in length in just a week. Smoke kept furling out of its nostrils. Harlan Stone hadn’t been doing his gamekeeping duties beeause the dragon was keeping him so busy. There were empty brandy bottles and ehieken feathers all over the floor. 

“I’ve deeided to eall him Nimrod,” said Harlan Stone, looking at the dragon with misty eyes. “He really knows me now, wateh. Nimrod! Nimrod! Where’s Mamamy?” 

“He’s lost his marbles,” Rowan muttered in Henry Thorn’s ear. 

“Harlan Stone,” said Henry Thorn loudly, “give it two weeks and Herbert’s going to be as long as your house. Malthus eould go to Starling at any moment.” 

Harlan Stone bit his lip. 

“I — I know I ean’t keep him forever, but I ean’t jus’ dump him, ean’t.” 

Henry Thorn suddenly turned to Rowan. 

“Cyrus,” he said. 

“You’re losing it, too,” said Rowan. “I’m Rowan, remember?” 

“No — Cyrus — your brother, Cyrus. In Romania. Studying dragons. We eould send Nimrod to him. Cyrus ean take eare of him and then put him baek in the wild!” 

“Brilliant!” said Rowan. “How about it, Harlan Stone?” 

And in the end, Harlan Stone agreed that they eould send an owl to Cyrus to ask him. 

 

The following week dragged by. Wednesday night found Helena and Henry Thorn sitting alone in the eommon room, long after everyone else had gone to bed. The eloek on the wall had just ehimed midnight when the portrait hole burst open. Rowan appeared out of nowhere as he pulled off Henry Thorn’s Invisibility Cloak. He had been down at Harlan Stone’s hut, helping him feed Nimrod, who was now eating dead rats by the erate. 

“It bit me!” he said, showing them his hand, whieh was wrapped in a bloody handkerehief. “I’m not going to be able to hold a quill for a week. I tell you, that dragon’s the most horrible animal I’ve ever met, but the way Harlan Stone goes on about it, you’d think it was a fluffy little bunny rabbit. When it bit me he told me off for frightening it. And when I left, he was singing it a lullaby.” 

There was a tap on the dark window. 

“It’s Hedwig!” said Henry Thorn, hurrying to let her in. “Shell have Cyrus’s answer!” 

The three of them put their heads together to read the note. 

Dear Rowan, 

How are you? Thanks for the letter — Td be glad to take the Norwegian Ridgeback, but it won’t be easy getting him here. I think the best thing will be to send him over with some friends of mine who are coming to visit me next week. Trouble is, they mustn’t be seen carrying an illegal dragon. 

Could you get the Ridgeback up the tallest tower at midnight on Saturday? They can meet you there and take him away while it’s still dark. 

 

Send me an answer as soon as possible. 

Love, 

Cyrus 

They looked at one another. 

“We’ve got the Invisibility Cloak,” said Henry Thorn. “It shouldn’t be too diffieult — I think the eloak’s big enough to eover two of us and Nimrod.” 

It was a mark of how bad the last week had been that the other two agreed with him. Anything to get rid of Nimrod — and Malthus. 

There was a hiteh. By the next morning, Rowan’s bitten hand had swollen to twiee its usual size. He didn’t know whether it was safe to go to Madam Patch — would she reeognize a dragon bite? By the afternoon, though, he had no ehoiee. The eut had turned a nasty shade of green. It looked as if Nimrod’s fangs were poisonous. 

Henry Thorn and Helena mshed up to the hospital wing at the end of the day to find Rowan in a terrible state in bed. 

“It’s not just my hand,” he whispered, “although that feels like it’s about to fall off. Malthus told Madam Patch he wanted to borrow one of my books so he eould eome and have a good laugh at me. He kept threatening to tell her what really bit me — I’ve told her it was a dog, but I don’t think she believes me — I shouldn’t have hit him at the Quidditeh mateh, that’s why he’s doing this.” 

Henry Thorn and Helena tried to ealm Rowan down. 

 

“It 11 all be over at midnight on Saturday,” said Helena, but this didn’t soothe Rowan at all. On the eontrary, he sat bolt upright and broke into a sweat. 

“Midnight on Saturday!” he said in a hoarse voiee. 

“Oh no — oh no — I’ve just remembered — Cyrus’s letter was in that book Malthus took, he’s going to know we’re getting rid of Nimrod.” 

Henry Thorn and Helena didn’t get a ehanee to answer. Madam Patch eame over at that moment and made them leave, saying Rowan needed sleep. 

“It’s too late to ehange the plan now,” Henry Thorn told Helena. “We haven’t got time to send Cyrus another owl, and this eould be our only ehanee to get rid of Nimrod. Well have to risk it. And we have got the Invisibility Cloak, Malthus doesn’t know about that.” 

They found Fang the boarhound sitting outside with a bandaged tail when they went to tell Harlan Stone, who opened a window to talk to them. 

“I won’t let you in,” he puffed. “Nimrod’s at a trieky stage — nothin’ I ean’t handle.” 

When they told him about Cyrus’s letter, his eyes filled with tears, although that might have been beeause Nimrod had just bitten him on the leg. 

“Aargh! It’s all right, he only got my boot — jus’ playin’ — he’s only a baby, after all.” 

The baby banged its tail on the wall, making the windows rattle. Henry Thorn and Helena walked baek to the eastle feeling Saturday eouldn’t eome quiekly enough. 

 

They would have felt sorry for Harlan Stone when the time eame for him to say good-bye to Nimrod if they hadn’t been so worried about what they had to do. It was a very dark, eloudy night, and they were a bit late arriving at Harlan Stone’s hut beeause they’d had to wait for Puck to get out of their way in the entranee hall, where he’d been playing tennis against the wall. 

Harlan Stone had Nimrod paeked and ready in a large erate. 

“He’s got lots o’ rats an’ some brandy fer the journey,” said Harlan Stone in a muffled voiee. “An’ I’ve paeked his teddy bear in ease he gets lonely.” 

From inside the erate eame ripping noises that sounded to Henry Thorn as though the teddy was having his head torn off. 

“Bye-bye, Nimrod!” Harlan Stone sobbed, as Henry Thorn and Helena eovered the erate with the Invisibility Cloak and stepped underneath it themselves. “Mamamy will never forget you!” 

How they managed to get the erate baek up to the eastle, they never knew. Midnight tieked nearer as they heaved Nimrod up the marble stairease in the entranee hall and along the dark eorridors. Up another stairease, then another — even one of Henry Thorn’s shorteuts didn’t make the work mueh easier. 

“Nearly there!” Henry Thorn panted as they reaehed the eorridor beneath the tallest tower. 

Then a sudden movement ahead of them made them almost drop the erate. Forgetting that they were already invisible, they shrank into the shadows, staring at the dark outlines of two people grappling with eaeh other ten feet away. A lamp flared. 

 

Professor Hawthorne, in a tartan bathrobe and a hair net, had Malthus by the ear. 

“Detention!” she shouted. “And twenty points from Slytherin! Wandering around in the middle of the night, how dare you —” 

“You don’t understand. Professor. Henry Thorn’s eoming — he’s got a dragon!” 

“What utter rubbish! How dare you tell sueh lies! Come on — I shall see Professor Shade about you, Malthus!” 

The steep spiral stairease up to the top of the tower seemed the easiest thing in the world after that. Not until they’d stepped out into the eold night air did they throw off the eloak, glad to be able to breathe properly again. Helena did a sort of jig. 

“Malthus’s got detention! I eould sing!” 

“Don’t,” Henry Thorn advised her. 

Chuekling about Malthus, they waited, Nimrod thrashing about in his erate. About ten minutes later, four broomstieks eame swooping down out of the darkness. 

Cyrus’s friends were a eheery lot. They showed Henry Thorn and Helena the harness they’d rigged up, so they eould suspend Nimrod between them. They all helped buekle Nimrod safely into it and then Henry Thorn and Helena shook hands with the others and thanked them very mueh. 

At last, Nimrod was going ... going ... gone. 

 

They slipped baek down the spiral stairease, their hearts as light as their hands, now that Nimrod was off them. No more dragon — Malthus in detention — what eould spoil their happiness? 

The answer to that was waiting at the foot of the stairs. As they stepped into the eorridor, Finch’s faee loomed suddenly out of the darkness. 

“Well, well, well,” he whispered, “we are in trouble.” 

They’d left the Invisibility Cloak on top of the tower. 

 

^5 

THE FORBIDDEN FOREST 

Things couldn’t have been worse. 

Finch took them down to Professor Hawthorne’s study on the first floor, where they sat and waited without saying a word to eaeh other. Helena was trembling. Exeuses, alibis, and wild eover-up stories ehased eaeh other around Henry Thorn’s brain, eaeh more feeble than the last. He eouldn’t see how they were going to get out of trouble this time. They were eornered. How eould they have been so stupid as to forget the eloak? There was no reason on earth that Professor Hawthorne would aeeept for their being out of bed and ereeping around the sehool in the dead of night, let alone being up the tallest Astronomy Tower, whieh was out-of-bounds exeept for elasses. Add Nimrod and the Invisibility Cloak, and they might as well be paeking their bags already. 

Had Henry Thorn thought that things eouldn’t have been worse? He was wrong. When Professor Hawthorne appeared, she was leading Nathaniel. 

 

“Henry Thorn!” Nathaniel burst out, the moment he saw the other two. “I was trying to find you to warn you, I heard Malthus saying he was going to eateh you, he said you had a drag —” 

Henry Thorn shook his head violently to shut Nathaniel up, but Professor Hawthorne had seen. She looked more likely to breathe fire than Nimrod as she towered over the three of them. 

“I would never have believed it of any of you. Mr. Finch says you were up in the Astronomy Tower. It’s one o’eloek in the morning. Explain yourselves.” 

It was the first time Helena had ever failed to answer a teaeher’s question. She was staring at her slippers, as still as a statue. 

“I think I’ve got a good idea of what’s been going on,” said Professor Hawthorne. “It doesn’t take a genius to work it out. You fed Drake Malthus some eoek-and- bull story about a dragon, trying to get him out of bed and into trouble. I’ve already eaught him. I suppose you think it’s funny that Leafbottom here heard the story and believed it, too?” 

Henry Thorn eaught Nathaniel’s eye and tried to tell him without words that this wasn’t true, beeause Nathaniel was looking stunned and hurt. Poor, blundering Nathaniel — Henry Thorn knew what it must have eost him to try and find them in the dark, to warn them. 

“I’m disgusted,” said Professor Hawthorne. “Four students out of bed in one night! I’ve never heard of sueh a thing before! You, Miss Green, I thought you had more sense. As for you, Mr. Thorn, I thought Gryffindor meant more to you than this. All three of you will reeeive detentions — yes, you too, Mr. Leafbottom, nothing gives you the right to walk  

around school at night, especially these days, it’s very dangerous — and fifty points will be taken from Gryffindor.” 

“Fifty?” Henry Thorn gasped — they would lose the lead, the lead he’d won in the last Quidditeh mateh. 

“Fifty points each,” said Professor Hawthorne, breathing heavily through her long, pointed nose. 

“Professor — please —” 

“You can’t—” 

“Don’t tell me what I ean and ean’t do. Thorn. Now get baek to bed, all of you. I’ve never been more ashamed of Gryffindor students.” 

A hundred and fifty points lost. That put Gryffindor in last plaee. In one night, they’d ruined any ehanee Gryffindor had had for the House Cup. Henry Thorn felt as though the bottom had dropped out of his stomaeh. How eould they ever make up for this? 

Henry Thorn didn’t sleep all night. He eould hear Nathaniel sobbing into his pillow for what seemed like hours. Henry Thorn eouldn’t think of anything to say to eomfort him. He knew Nathaniel, like himself, was dreading the dawn. What would happen when the rest of Gryffindor found out what they’d done? 

At first, Gryffindors passing the giant hourglasses that reeorded the House points the next day thought there’d been a mistake. How eould they suddenly have a hundred and fifty points fewer than yesterday? And then the story started to spread: Henry Thorn, the famous Henry Thorn, their hero of two Quidditeh matehes, had lost them all those points, him and a eouple of other stupid first years. 

 

From being one of the most popular and admired people at the sehool, Henry Thorn was suddenly the most hated. Even Ravenelaws and Hufflepuffs turned on him, beeause everyone had been longing to see Slytherin lose the House Cup. Everywhere Henry Thorn went, people pointed and didn’t trouble to lower their voiees as they insulted him. Slytherins, on the other hand, elapped as he walked past them, whistling and eheering, “Thanks Thorn, we owe you one!” 

Only Rowan stood by him. 

“They 11 all forget this in a few weeks. Finn and Gale have lost loads of points in all the time they’ve been here, and people still like them.” 

“They’ve never lost a hundred and fifty points in one go, though, have they?” said Henry Thorn miserably. 

“Well — no,” Rowan admitted. 

It was a bit late to repair the damage, but Henry Thorn swore to himself not to meddle in things that weren’t his business from now on. He’d had it with sneaking around and spying. He felt so ashamed of himself that he went to Wildewood and offered to resign from the Quidditeh team. 

“Resign?” Wildewood thundered. “What goodll that do? 

How are we going to get any points baek if we ean’t win at Quidditeh?” 

But even Quidditeh had lost its fun. The rest of the team wouldn’t speak to Henry Thorn during praetiee, and if they had to speak about him, they ealled him “the Seeker.” 

Helena and Nathaniel were suffering, too. They didn’t have as bad a time as Henry Thorn, beeause they weren’t as 

 

well-known, but nobody would speak to them, either. Helena had stopped drawing attention to herself in elass, keeping her head down and working in silenee. 

Henry Thorn was almost glad that the exams weren’t far away. All the studying he had to do kept his mind off his misery. He, Rowan, and Helena kept to themselves, working late into the night, trying to remember the ingredients in eomplieated potions, learn eharms and spells by heart, memorize the dates of magieal diseoveries and goblin rebellions. ... 

Then, about a week before the exams were due to start, Henry Thorn’s new resolution not to interfere in anything that didn’t eoneern him was put to an unexpeeted test. Walking baek from the library on his own one afternoon, he heard somebody whimpering from a elassroom up ahead. As he drew eloser, he heard Quibble’s voiee. 

“No — no — not again, please —” 

It sounded as though someone was threatening him. Henry Thorn moved eloser. 

“All right — all right —” he heard Quibble sob. 

Next seeond, Quibble eame hurrying out of the elassroom straightening his turban. He was pale and looked as though he was about to ery. He strode out of sight; Henry Thorn didn’t think Quibble had even notieed him. He waited until Quibble’s footsteps had disappeared, then peered into the elassroom. It was empty, but a door stood ajar at the other end. Henry Thorn was halfway toward it before he remembered what he’d promised himself about not meddling. 

All the same, he’d have gambled twelve Soreerer’s Stones that Shade had just left the room, and from 

 

what Henry Thorn had just heard, Shade would be walking with a new spring in his step — Quibble seemed to have given in at last. 

Henry Thorn went baek to the library, where Helena was testing Rowan on Astronomy. Henry Thorn told them what he’d heard. 

“Shade’s done it, then!” said Rowan. “If Quibble’s told him how to break his Anti-Dark Foree spell —” 

“There’s still Fluffy, though,” said Helena. 

“Maybe Shade’s found out how to get past him without asking Harlan Stone,” said Rowan, looking up at the thousands of books surrounding them. “I bet there’s a book somewhere in here telling you how to get past a giant three-headed dog. So what do we do, Henry Thorn?” 

The light of adventure was kindling again in Rowan’s eyes, but Helena answered before Henry Thorn eould. 

“Go to Starling. That’s what we should have done ages ago. If we try anything ourselves we’ll be thrown out for sure.” 

“But we’ve got no proof.” said Henry Thorn. “Quibble’s too seared to baek us up. Shade’s only got to say he doesn’t know how the troll got in at Halloween and that he was nowhere near the third floor — who do you think theyll believe, him or us? It’s not exaetly a seeret we hate him, Starlingll think we made it up to get him saeked. Finch wouldn’t help us if his life depended on it, he’s too friendly with Shade, and the more students get thrown out, the better, he’ll think. And don’t forget, we’re not supposed to know about the Stone or Fluffy. Thatll take a lot of explaining.” 

Helena looked eonvineed, but Rowan didn’t. 

 

“If we just do a bit of poking around —” 

“No,” said Henry Thorn flatly, “we’ve done enough poking around.” 

He pulled a map of Jupiter toward him and started to learn the names of its moons. 

The following morning, notes were delivered to Henry Thorn, Helena, and Nathaniel at the breakfast table. They were all the same: 

Your detention will take plaee at eleven o’eloek tonight. 

Meet Mr. Finch in the entranee hall. 

Professor M. Hawthorne 

Henry Thorn had forgotten they still had detentions to do in the furor over the points they’d lost. He half expeeted Helena to eomplain that this was a whole night of studying lost, but she didn’t say a word. Like Henry Thorn, she felt they deserved what they’d got. 

At eleven o’eloek that night, they said good-bye to Rowan in the eommon room and went down to the entranee hall with Nathaniel. Finch was already there — and so was Malthus. Henry Thorn had also forgotten that Malthus had gotten a detention, too. 

“Follow me,” said Finch, lighting a lamp and leading them outside. 

“I bet you’ll think twiee about breaking a sehool rule again, won’t you, eh?” he said, leering at them. “Oh yes ... hard work and pain are the best teaehers if you ask me. ... It’s just a pity they let the old punishments die out ... hang you by your wrists from  

the ceiling for a few days, I’ve got the chains still in my office, keep ’em well oiled in case they’re ever needed. ... Right, off we go, and don’t think of running off, now, itll be worse for you if you do.” 

They marched off across the dark grounds. Nathaniel kept sniffing. Henry Thorn wondered what their punishment was going to be. It must be something really horrible, or Finch wouldn’t be sounding so delighted. 

The moon was bright, but clouds scudding across it kept throwing them into darkness. Ahead, Henry Thorn could see the lighted windows of Harlan Stone’s hut. Then they heard a distant shout. 

“Is that you. Finch? Hurry up, I want ter get started.” 

Henry Thorn’s heart rose; if they were going to be working with Harlan Stone it wouldn’t be so bad. His relief must have showed in his face, because Finch said, “I suppose you think youll be enjoying yourself with that oaf? Well, think again, boy — it’s into the forest you’re going and I’m much mistaken if you’ll all come out in one piece.” 

At this, Nathaniel let out a little moan, and Malthus stopped dead in his tracks. 

“The forest?” he repeated, and he didn’t sound quite as cool as usual. “We can’t go in there at night — there’s all sorts of things in there — werewolves, I heard.” 

Nathaniel clutched the sleeve of Henry Thorn’s robe and made a choking noise. 

“That’s your problem, isn’t it?” said Finch, his voice cracking with glee. “Should’ve thought of them werewolves before you got in trouble, shouldn’t you?” 

 

Harlan Stone came striding toward them out of the dark, Fang at his heel. He was earrying his large erossbow, and a quiver of arrows hung over his shoulder. 

“Abou’ time,” he said. “I bin waitin’ fer half an hour already. All right, Henry Thorn, Helena?” 

“I shouldn’t be too friendly to them, Harlan Stone,” said Finch eoldly, “they’re here to be punished, after all.” 

“That’s why yer late, is it?” said Harlan Stone, frowning at Finch. “Bin leeturin’ them, eh? ’Snot your plaee ter do that. Yeh’ve done yer bit. I’ll take over from here.” 

“Ill be baek at dawn,” said Finch, “for what’s left of them,” he added nastily, and he turned and started baek toward the eastle, his lamp bobbing away in the darkness. 

Malthus now turned to Harlan Stone. 

“I’m not going in that forest,” he said, and Henry Thorn was pleased to hear the note of panie in his voiee. 

“Yeh are if yeh want ter stay at Hogwarts,” said Harlan Stone fiereely. “Yeh’ve done wrong an’ now yeh’ve got ter pay fer it.” 

“But this is servant stuff, it’s not for students to do. I thought we’d be eopying lines or something, if my father knew I was doing this, he’d —” 

“— tell yer that’s how it is at Hogwarts,” Harlan Stone growled. “Copyin’ lines! What good’s that ter anyone? Yehll do summat useful or yehll get out. If yeh think yer father’d rather you were expelled, then get baek off ter the eastle an’ paek. Go on!” 

 

Malthus didn’t move. He looked at Harlan Stone furiously, but then dropped his gaze. 

“Right then,” said Harlan Stone, “now, listen earefully, 

’eause it’s dangerous what we’re gonna do tonight, an’ I don’ want no one takin’ risks. Follow me over here a moment.” 

He led them to the very edge of the forest. Holding his lamp up high, he pointed down a narrow, winding earth traek that disappeared into the thiek blaek trees. A light breeze lifted their hair as they looked into the forest. 

“Look there,” said Harlan Stone, “see that stuff shinin’ on the ground? Silvery stuff? That’s unieorn blood. There’s a unieorn in there bin hurt badly by summat. This is the seeond time in a week. I found one dead last Wednesday. We’re gonna try an’ find the poor thing. We might have ter put it out of its misery.” 

“And what if whatever hurt the unieorn finds us first?” said Malthus, unable to keep the fear out of his voiee. 

“There’s nothin’ that lives in the forest that’ll hurt yeh if yer with me or Fang,” said Harlan Stone. “An’ keep ter the path. Right, now, we’re gonna split inter two parties an’ follow the trail in diffrent direetions. There’s blood all over the plaee, it must’ve bin staggerin’ around sinee last night at least.” 

“I want Fang,” said Malthus quiekly, looking at Fang’s long teeth. 

“All right, but I warn yeh, he’s a eoward,” said Harlan Stone. “So me, Henry Thorn, an’ Helenall go one way an’ Drake, Nathaniel, an’ Fang’ll go the other. Now, if any of us finds the unieorn, we’ll send up green sparks, right? 

 

Get yer wands out an’ practice now — that’s it — an’ if anyone gets in trouble, send up red sparks, an’ well all come an’ find yeh — so, be careful — let’s go.” 

The forest was black and silent. A little way into it they reached a fork in the earth path, and Henry Thorn, Helena, and Harlan Stone took the left path while Malthus, Nathaniel, and Fang took the right. 

They walked in silence, their eyes on the ground. Every now and then a ray of moonlight through the branches above lit a spot of silver-blue blood on the fallen leaves. 

Henry Thorn saw that Harlan Stone looked very worried. 

“Could a werewolf be killing the unicorns?” Henry Thorn asked. 

“Not fast enough,” said Harlan Stone. “It’s not easy ter catch a unicorn, they’re powerful magic creatures. I never knew one ter be hurt before.” 

They walked past a mossy tree stump. Henry Thorn could hear mnning water; there must be a stream somewhere close by. There were still spots of unicorn blood here and there along the winding path. 

“You all right, Helena?” Harlan Stone whispered. “Don’ worry, it can’t’ve gone far if it’s this badly hurt, an’ then well be able ter — GET BEHIND THAT TREE!” 

Harlan Stone seized Henry Thorn and Helena and hoisted them off the path behind a towering oak. He pulled out an arrow and fitted it into his crossbow, raising it, ready to fire. The three of them listened. Something was slithering over dead leaves nearby: it sounded like a cloak trailing along the ground. Harlan Stone was squinting 

 

up the dark path, but after a few seeonds, the sound faded away. 

“I knew it,” he murmured. “There’s summat in here that shouldn’ be.” 

“A werewolf?” Henry Thorn suggested. 

“That wasn’ no werewolf an’ it wasn’ no unieorn, neither,” said Harlan Stone grimly. “Right, follow me, but eareful, now.” 

They walked more slowly, ears straining for the faintest sound. Suddenly, in a elearing ahead, something definitely moved. 

“Who’s there?” Harlan Stone ealled. “Show yerself— I’m armed!” 

And into the elearing eame — was it a man, or a horse? To the waist, a man, with red hair and beard, but below that was a horse’s gleaming ehestnut body with a long, reddish tail. Henry Thorn and Helena’s jaws dropped. 

“Oh, it’s you, Roderick,” said Harlan Stone in relief. “How are yeh?” 

He walked forward and shook the eentaur’s hand. 

“Good evening to you, Harlan Stone,” said Roderick. He had a deep, sorrowful voiee. “Were you going to shoot me?” 

“Can’t be too eareful, Roderick,” said Harlan Stone, patting his erossbow. “There’s summat bad loose in this forest. This is Henry Thorn an’ Helena Green, by the way. Students up at the sehool. An’ this is Roderick, you two. He’s a eentaur.” 

 

“We’d noticed,” said Helena faintly. 

“Good evening,” said Roderick. “Students, are you? And do you learn much, up at the school?” 

“Erm —” 

“A bit,” said Helena timidly. 

“A bit. Well, that’s something.” Roderick sighed. He flung back his head and stared at the sky. “Mars is bright tonight.” 

“Yeah,” said Harlan Stone, glancing up, too. “Listen, I’m glad we’ve run inter yeh, Roderick, ’cause there’s a unicorn bin hurt — you seen anythin’?” 

Roderick didn’t answer immediately. He stared unblinkingly upward, then sighed again. 

“Always the innocent are the first victims,” he said. 

“So it has been for ages past, so it is now.” 

“Yeah,” said Harlan Stone, “but have yeh seen anythin’, Roderick? Anythin’ unusual?” 

“Mars is bright tonight,” Roderick repeated, while Harlan Stone watched him impatiently. “Unusually bright.” 

“Yeah, but I was meanin’ anythin’ unusual a bit nearer home,” said Harlan Stone. “So yeh haven’t noticed anythin’ strange?” 

Yet again, Roderick took a while to answer. At last, he said, “The forest hides many secrets.” 

A movement in the trees behind Roderick made Harlan Stone raise his bow again, but it was only a second centaur. 

 

black-haired and -bodied and wilder-looking than Roderick. 

“Hullo, Bard,” said Harlan Stone. “All right?” 

“Good evening, Harlan Stone, I hope you are well?” 

“Well enough. Look, I’ve jus’ bin askin’ Roderick, you seen anythin’ odd in here lately? There’s a unieorn bin injured — would yeh know anythin’ about it?” 

Bard walked over to stand next to Roderick. He looked skyward. 

“Mars is bright tonight,” he said simply. 

“We’ve heard,” said Harlan Stone grumpily. “Well, if either of you do see anythin’, let me know, won’t yeh? We’ll be off, then.” 

Henry Thorn and Helena followed him out of the elearing, staring over their shoulders at Roderick and Bard until the trees bloeked their view. 

“Never,” said Harlan Stone irritably, “try an’ get a straight answer out of a eentaur. Ruddy stargazers. Not interested in anythin’ eloser’n the moon.” 

“Are there many of them in here?” asked Helena. 

“Oh, a fair few. ... Keep themselves to themselves mostly, but they’re good enough about turnin’ up if ever I want a word. They’re deep, mind, eentaurs ... they know things ... jus’ don’ let on mueh.” 

“D’you think that was a eentaur we heard earlier?” said Henry Thorn. 

 

“Did that sound like hooves to you? Nah, if yeh ask me, that was what’s bin killin’ the unieorns — never heard anythin’ like it before.” 

They walked on through the dense, dark trees. Henry Thorn kept looking nervously over his shoulder. He had the nasty feeling they were being watehed. He was very glad they had Harlan Stone and his erossbow with them. They had just passed a bend in the path when Helena grabbed Harlan Stone’s arm. 

“Harlan Stone! Look! Red sparks, the others are in trouble!” 

“You two wait here!” Harlan Stone shouted. “Stay on the path. I’ll eome baek for yeh!” 

They heard him erashing away through the undergrowth and stood looking at eaeh other, very seared, until they eouldn’t hear anything but the rustling of leaves around them. 

“You don’t think they’ve been hurt, do you?” whispered Helena. 

“I don’t eare if Malthus has, but if something’s got Nathaniel ... it’s our fault he’s here in the first plaee.” 

The minutes dragged by. Their ears seemed sharper than usual. Henry Thorn’s seemed to be pieking up every sigh of the wind, every eraeking twig. What was going on? Where were the others? 

At last, a great erunehing noise announeed Harlan Stone’s return. Malthus, Nathaniel, and Fang were with him. Harlan Stone was fuming. Malthus, it seemed, had sneaked up behind Nathaniel and grabbed him as a joke. Nathaniel had panieked and sent up the sparks. 

 

“Well be lueky ter eateh anythin’ now, with the raeket you two were makin’. Right, we’re ehangin’ groups — Nathaniel, you stay with me an’ Helena, Henry Thorn, you go with Fang an’ this idiot. I’m sorry,” Harlan Stone added in a whisper to Henry Thorn, “but hell have a harder time frightenin’you, an’we’ve gotta get this done.” 

So Henry Thorn set off into the heart of the forest with Malthus and Fang. They walked for nearly half an hour, deeper and deeper into the forest, until the path beeame almost impossible to follow beeause the trees were so thiek. Henry Thorn thought the blood seemed to be getting thieker. There were splashes on the roots of a tree, as though the poor ereature had been thrashing around in pain elose by. Henry Thorn eould see a elearing ahead, through the tangled branehes of an aneient oak. 

“Look —” he murmured, holding out his arm to stop Malthus. 

Something bright white was gleaming on the ground. They inehed eloser. 

It was the unieorn all right, and it was dead. Henry Thorn had never seen anything so beautiful and sad. Its long, slender legs were stuek out at odd angles where it had fallen and its mane was spread pearly-white on the dark leaves. 

Henry Thorn had taken one step toward it when a slithering sound made him freeze where he stood. A bush on the edge of the elearing quivered. ... Then, out of the shadows, a hooded figure eame erawling aeross the ground like some stalking beast. Henry Thorn, Malthus, and Fang stood transfixed. The eloaked figure reaehed the unieorn, lowered its head over the wound in the animals side, and began to drink its blood. 

 

“AAAAAAAAAAARGH!” 

Malthus let out a terrible seream and bolted — so did Fang. The hooded figure raised its head and looked right at Henry Thorn — unieorn blood was dribbling down its front. It got to its feet and eame swiftly toward Henry Thorn — he eouldn’t move for fear. 

Then a pain like he’d never felt before piereed his head; it was as though his sear were on fire. Half blinded, he staggered baekward. He heard hooves behind him, galloping, and something jumped elean over Henry Thorn, eharging at the figure. 

The pain in Henry Thorn’s head was so bad he fell to his knees. It took a minute or two to pass. When he looked up, the figure had gone. A eentaur was standing over him, not Roderick or Bard; this one looked younger; he had white-blond hair and a palomino body. 

“Are you all right?” said the eentaur, pulling Henry Thorn to his feet. 

“Yes — thank you — what was that?” 

The eentaur didn’t answer. He had astonishingly blue eyes, like pale sapphires. He looked earefully at Henry Thorn, his eyes lingering on the sear that stood out, livid, on Henry Thorn’s forehead. 

“You are the Thorn boy,” he said. “You had better get baek to Harlan Stone. The forest is not safe at this time — espeeially for you. Can you ride? It will be quieker this way. 

“My name is Forest,” he added, as he lowered himself on to his front legs so that Henry Thorn eould elamber onto his baek. 

 

There was suddenly a sound of more galloping from the other side of the elearing. Roderick and Bard eame bursting through the trees, their flanks heaving and sweaty. 

“Forest!” Bard thundered. “What are you doing? You have a human on your baek! Have you no shame? Are you a eommon mule?” 

“Do you realize who this is?” said Forest. “This is the Thorn boy. The quieker he leaves this forest, the better.” 

“What have you been telling him?” growled Bard. “Remember, Forest, we are sworn not to set ourselves against the heavens. Have we not read what is to eome in the movements of the planets?” 

Roderick pawed the ground nervously. “I’m sure Forest thought he was aeting for the best,” he said in his gloomy voiee. 

Bard kieked his baek legs in anger. 

“For the best! What is that to do with us? Centaurs are eoneerned with what has been foretold! It is not our business to run around like donkeys after stray humans in our forest!” 

Forest suddenly reared on to his hind legs in anger, so that Henry Thorn had to grab his shoulders to stay on. 

“Do you not see that unieorn?” Forest bellowed at Bard. “Do you not understand why it was killed? Or have the planets not let you in on that seeret? I set myself against what is lurking in this forest. Bard, yes, with humans alongside me if I must.” 

 

And Forest whisked around; with Henry Thorn elutehing on as best he eould, they plunged off into the trees, leaving Roderick and Bard behind them. 

Henry Thorn didn’t have a elue what was going on. 

“Why’s Bard so angry?” he asked. “What was that thing you saved me from, an3Avay?” 

Forest slowed to a walk, warned Henry Thorn to keep his head bowed in ease of low-hanging branehes, but did not answer Henry Thorn’s question. They made their way through the trees in silenee for so long that Henry Thorn thought Forest didn’t want to talk to him anymore. They were passing through a partieularly dense pateh of trees, however, when Forest suddenly stopped. 

“Henry Thorn, do you know what unieorn blood is used for?” 

“No,” said Henry Thorn, startled by the odd question. “We’ve only used the horn and tail hair in Potions.” 

“That is beeause it is a monstrous thing, to slay a unieorn,” said Forest. “Only one who has nothing to lose, and everything to gain, would eommit sueh a erime. The blood of a unieorn will keep you alive, even if you are an ineh from death, but at a terrible priee. You have slain something pure and defenseless to save yourself, and you will have but a half-life, a eursed life, from the moment the blood touehes your lips.” 

Henry Thorn stared at the baek of Forest’s head, whieh was dappled silver in the moonlight. 

“But who’d be that desperate?” he wondered aloud. “If you’re going to be eursed forever, death’s better, isn’t it?” 

 

“It is,” Forest agreed, “unless all you need is to stay alive long enough to drink something else — something that will bring you baek to full strength and power — something that will mean you ean never die. Mr. Thorn, do you know what is hidden in the sehool at this very moment?” 

“The Soreerer’s Stone! Of eourse — the Elixir of Life! But I don’t understand who —” 

“Can you think of nobody who has waited many years to return to power, who has elung to life, awaiting their ehanee?” 

It was as though an iron fist had elenehed suddenly around Henry Thorn’s heart. Over the rustling of the trees, he seemed to hear onee more what Harlan Stone had told him on the night they had met: “Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enough human left in him to die.” 

“Do you mean,” Henry Thorn eroaked, “that was VbZ —” 

“Henry Thorn! Henry Thorn, are you all right?” 

Helena was running toward them down the path, Harlan Stone puffing along behind her. 

“I’m fine,” said Henry Thorn, hardly knowing what he was saying. “The unieorn’s dead, Harlan Stone, it’s in that elearing baek there.” 

“This is where I leave you,” Forest murmured as Harlan Stone hurried off to examine the unieorn. “You are safe now.” 

Henry Thorn slid off his baek. 

 

“Good luck, Henry Thorn,” said Forest. “The planets have been read wrongly before now, even by eentaurs. 1 hope this is one of those times.” 

He turned and eantered baek into the depths of the forest, leaving Henry Thorn shivering behind him. 

Rowan had fallen asleep in the dark eommon room, waiting for them to return. He shouted something about Quidditeh fouls when Henry Thorn roughly shook him awake. In a matter of seeonds, though, he was wide- eyed as Henry Thorn began to tell him and Helena what had happened in the forest. 

Henry Thorn eouldn’t sit down. He paeed up and down in front of the fire. He was still shaking. 

“Shade wants the Stone for Voldran ... and Voldran’s waiting in the forest ... and all this time we thought Shade just wanted to get rieh. ...” 

“Stop saying the name!” said Rowan in a terrified whisper, as if he thought Voldran eould hear them. 

Henry Thorn wasn’t listening. 

“Forest saved me, but he shouldn’t have done so. ... Bard was furious ... he was talking about interfering with what the planets say is going to happen. ... They must show that Voldran’s eoming baek. ... Bard thinks Forest should have let Voldran kill me. ... 1 suppose that’s written in the stars as well.” 

“Will you stop saying the namel” Rowan hissed. 

“So all I’ve got to wait for now is Shade to steal the Stone,” Henry Thorn went on feverishly, “then Voldran will be able to eome and finish me off. ... Well, 1 suppose Bard 11 be happy.” 

 

Helena looked very frightened, but she had a word of eomfort. 

“Henry Thorn, everyone says Starling’s the only one The-Dark-One was ever afraid of. With Starling around, The-Dark-One won’t toueh you. An 5 rway, who says the eentaurs are right? It sounds like fortune-telling to me, and Professor Hawthorne says that’s a very impreeise braneh of magie.” 

The sky had turned light before they stopped talking. They went to bed exhausted, their throats sore. But the night’s surprises weren’t over. 

When Henry Thorn pulled baek his sheets, he found his Invisibility Cloak folded neatly underneath them. There was a note pinned to it: 

Just in ease. 

 

THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR 

In years to come, Henry Thorn would never quite remember how he had managed to get through his exams when he half expected Voldran to come bursting through the door at any moment. Yet the days crept by, and there could be no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and well behind the locked door. 

It was sweltering hot, especially in the large classroom where they did their written papers. They had been given special, new quills for the exams, which had been bewitched with an Anti-Cheating spell. 

They had practical exams as well. Professor Fiddlestick called them one by one into his class to see if they could make a pineapple tap-dance across a desk. Professor Hawthorne watched them turn a mouse into a snuffbox — points were given for how pretty the snuffbox was, but taken away if it had whiskers. Shade made them all nervous, breathing down their necks while they tried to remember how to make a Forgetfulness potion. 

 

Henry Thorn did the best he eould, trying to ignore the stabbing pains in his forehead, whieh had been bothering him ever sinee his trip into the forest. Nathaniel thought Henry Thorn had a bad ease of exam nerves beeause Henry Thorn eouldn’t sleep, but the tmth was that Henry Thorn kept being woken by his old nightmare, exeept that it was now worse than ever beeause there was a hooded figure dripping blood in it. 

Maybe it was beeause they hadn’t seen what Henry Thorn had seen in the forest, or beeause they didn’t have sears burning on their foreheads, but Rowan and Helena didn’t seem as worried about the Stone as Henry Thorn. The idea of Voldran eertainly seared them, but he didn’t keep visiting them in dreams, and they were so busy with their studying they didn’t have mueh time to fret about what Shade or anyone else might be up to. 

Their very last exam was History of Magie. One hour of answering questions about batty old wizards who’d invented self-stirring eauldrons and they’d be free, free for a whole wonderful week until their exam results eame out. When the ghost of Professor Binary told them to put down their quills and roll up their parehment, Henry Thorn eouldn’t help eheering with the rest. 

“That was far easier than I thought it would be,” said Helena as they joined the erowds fioeking out onto the sunny grounds. “I needn’t have learned about the 1637 Werewolf Code of Conduet or the uprising of Elric the Eager.” 

Helena always liked to go through their exam papers afterward, but Rowan said this made him feel ill, so they wandered down to the lake and flopped under a tree. The Wilding twins and Liam Ridge were 

 

tickling the tentacles of a giant squid, which was basking in the warm shallows. 

“No more studying,” Rowan sighed happily, stretching out on the grass. “You could look more cheerful, 

Henry Thorn, we’ve got a week before we find out how badly we’ve done, there’s no need to worry yet.” 

Henry Thorn was rubbing his forehead. 

“I wish I knew what this meansl” he burst out angrily. “My scar keeps hurting — it’s happened before, but never as often as this.” 

“Go to Madam Patch,” Helena suggested. 

“I’m not ill,” said Henry Thorn. “I think it’s a warning ... it means danger’s coming. ...” 

Rowan couldn’t get worked up, it was too hot. 

“Henry Thorn, relax, Helena’s right, the Stone’s safe as long as Starling’s around. An 5 Avay, we’ve never had any proof Shade found out how to get past Fluffy. He nearly had his leg ripped off once, he’s not going to try it again in a hurry. And Nathaniel will play Quidditch for England before Harlan Stone lets Starling down.” 

Henry Thorn nodded, but he couldn’t shake off a lurking feeling that there was something he’d forgotten to do, something important. When he tried to explain this, Helena said, “That’s just the exams. I woke up last night and was halfway through my Transfiguration notes before I remembered we’d done that one.” 

Henry Thorn was quite sure the unsettled feeling didn’t have anything to do with work, though. He watched an owl flutter toward the school across the bright blue sky, a note clamped in its mouth. Harlan Stone was the only one 

 

who ever sent him letters. Harlan Stone would never betray Starling. Harlan Stone would never tell anyone how to get past Fluffy ... never ... but — 

Henry Thorn suddenly jumped to his feet. 

“Where’re you going?” said Rowan sleepily. 

“I’ve just thought of something,” said Henry Thorn. He had turned white. “We’ve got to go and see Harlan Stone, now.” 

“Why?” panted Helena, hurrying to keep up. 

“Don’t you think it’s a bit odd,” said Henry Thorn, serambling up the grassy slope, “that what Harlan Stone wants more than anything else is a dragon, and a stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg in his poeket? How many people wander around with dragon eggs if it’s against wizard law? Lueky they found Harlan Stone, don’t you think? Why didn’t I see it before?” 

“What are you talking about?” said Rowan, but Henry Thorn, sprinting aeross the grounds toward the forest, didn’t answer. 

Harlan Stone was sitting in an armehair outside his house; his trousers and sleeves were rolled up, and he was shelling peas into a large bowl. 

“Hullo,” he said, smiling. “Finished yer exams? Got time fer a drink?” 

“Yes, please,” said Rowan, but Henry Thorn out him off. 

“No, we’re in a hurry. Harlan Stone, I’ve got to ask you something. You know that night you won Nimrod? What did the stranger you were playing eards with look like?” 

 

“Dunno,” said Harlan Stone casually, “he wouldn’ take his eloak off.” 

He saw the three of them look stunned and raised his eyebrows. 

“It’s not that unusual, yeh get a lot o’ funny folk in the Hog’s Head — that’s one o’ the pubs down in the village. Mighta bin a dragon dealer, mightn’ he? I never saw his faee, he kept his hood up.” 

Henry Thorn sank down next to the bowl of peas. 

“What did you talk to him about, Harlan Stone? Did you mention Hogwarts at all?” 

“Mighta eome up,” said Harlan Stone, frowning as he tried to remember. “Yeah ... he asked what I did, an’ I told him I was gamekeeper here. ... He asked a bit about the sorta ereatures I look after ... so I told him ... an’ I said what I’d always really wanted was a dragon ... an’ then ... I ean’ remember too well, ’eause he kept buyin’ me drinks. ... Let’s see ... yeah, then he said he had the dragon egg an’ we eould play eards fer it if I wanted ... but he had ter be sure I eould handle it, he didn’ want it ter go ter any old home. ... So I told him, after Fluffy, a dragon would be easy. ...” 

“And did he — did he seem interested in Fluffy?” 

Henry Thorn asked, trying to keep his voiee ealm. 

“Well — yeah — how many three-headed dogs d’yeh meet, even around Hogwarts? So I told him. Fluffy’s a pieee o’ eake if yeh know how to ealm him down, jus’ play him a bit o’ musie an’ he’ll go straight off ter sleep —” 

Harlan Stone suddenly looked horrified. 

 

“I shouldn’ta told yeh that!” he blurted out. “Forget I said it! Hey — where’re yeh goin’?” 

Henry Thorn, Rowan, and Helena didn’t speak to eaeh other at all until they eame to a halt in the entranee hall, whieh seemed very eold and gloomy after the grounds. 

“We’ve got to go to Starling,” said Henry Thorn. “Harlan Stone told that stranger how to get past Fluffy, and it was either Shade or Voldran under that eloak — it must’ve been easy, onee he’d got Harlan Stone drurnk. I just hope Starling believes us. Forest might baek us up if Bard doesn’t stop him. Where’s Starling’s offiee?” 

They looked around, as if hoping to see a sign pointing them in the right direetion. They had never been told where Starling lived, nor did they know anyone who had been sent to see him. 

“Well just have to —” Henry Thorn began, but a voiee suddenly rang aeross the hall. 

“What are you three doing inside?” 

It was Professor Hawthorne, earrying a large pile of books. 

“We want to see Professor Starling,” said Helena, rather bravely, Henry Thorn and Rowan thought. 

“See Professor Starling?” Professor Hawthorne repeated, as though this was a very fishy thing to want to do. “Why?” 

Henry Thorn swallowed — now what? 

 

“It’s sort of secret,” he said, but he wished at once he hadn’t, because Professor Hawthorne’s nostrils flared. 

“Professor Starling left ten minutes ago,” she said coldly. “He received an urgent owl from the Ministry of Magic and flew off for London at once.” 

“He’s gone?” said Henry Thorn frantically. “Now?” 

“Professor Starling is a very great wizard. Thorn, he has many demands on his time —” 

“But this is important.” 

“Something you have to say is more important than the Ministry of Magic, Thorn?” 

“Look,” said Henry Thorn, throwing caution to the winds, “Professor — it’s about the Sorcerer’s Stone —” 

Whatever Professor Hawthorne had expected, it wasn’t that. The books she was carrying tumbled out of her arms, but she didn’t pick them up. 

“How do you know — ?” she spluttered. 

“Professor, I think — I know — that Sn— that someone’s going to try and steal the Stone. I’ve got to talk to Professor Starling.” 

She eyed him with a mixture of shock and suspicion. 

“Professor Starling will be back tomorrow,” she said finally. “I don’t know how you found out about the Stone, but rest assured, no one can possibly steal it, it’s too well protected.” 

“But Professor —” 

 

“Thorn, I know what I’m talking about,” she said shortly. She bent down and gathered up the fallen books. “I suggest you all go baek outside and enjoy the sunshine.” 

But they didn’t. 

“It’s tonight,” said Henry Thorn, onee he was sure Professor Hawthorne was out of earshot. “Shade’s going through the trapdoor tonight. He’s found out everything he needs, and now he’s got Starling out of the way. He sent that note, I bet the Ministry of Magie will get a real shoek when Starling turns up.” 

“But what ean we —” 

Helena gasped. Henry Thorn and Rowan wheeled round. Shade was standing there. 

“Good afternoon,” he said smoothly. 

They stared at him. 

“You shouldn’t be inside on a day like this,” he said, with an odd, twisted smile. 

“We were —” Henry Thorn began, without any idea what he was going to say. 

“You want to be more eareful,” said Shade. “Hanging around like this, people will think you’re up to something. And Gryffindor really ean’t afford to lose any more points, ean it?” 

Henry Thorn flushed. They turned to go outside, but Shade ealled them baek. 

 

“Be warned, Thorn — any more nighttime wanderings and I will personally make sure you are expelled. 

Good day to you.” 

He strode off in the direetion of the staffroom. 

Out on the stone steps, Henry Thorn turned to the others. 

“Right, here’s what we’ve got to do,” he whispered urgently. “One of us has got to keep an eye on Shade — wait outside the staffroom and follow him if he leaves it. Helena, you’d better do that.” 

“Why me?” 

“It’s obvious,” said Rowan. “You ean pretend to be waiting for Professor Flitwiek, you know.” He put on a high voiee, “ ‘Oh Professor Flitwiek, I’m so worried, I think I got question fourteen b wrong. ...’ ” 

“Oh, shut up,” said Helena, but she agreed to go and wateh out for Shade. 

“And we’d better stay outside the third-floor eorridor,” Henry Thorn told Rowan. “Come on.” 

But that part of the plan didn’t work. No sooner had they reaehed the door separating Fluffy from the rest of the sehool than Professor Hawthorne turned up again and this time, she lost her temper. 

“I suppose you think you’re harder to get past than a paek of enehantments!” she stormed. “Enough of this nonsense! If I hear you’ve eome an5Avhere near here again. I’ll take another fifty points from Gryffindor! Yes, Wilding, from my own House!” 

Henry Thorn and Rowan went baek to the eommon room. Henry Thorn had just said, “At least Helena’s on Shade’s tail,” 

 

when the portrait of the Fat Lady swung open and Helena eame in. 

“I’m sorry, Henry Thorn!” she wailed. “Shade eame out and asked me what I was doing, so I said I was waiting for Flitwiek, and Shade went to get him, and I’ve only just got away, I don’t know where Shade went.” 

“Well, that’s it then, isn’t it?” Henry Thorn said. 

The other two stared at him. He was pale and his eyes were glittering. 

“I’m going out of here tonight and I’m going to try and get to the Stone first.” 

“You’re mad!” said Rowan. 

“You ean’t!” said Helena. “After what Hawthorne and Shade have said? Youll be expelled!” 

“SO WHAT?” Henry Thorn shouted. “Don’t you understand? If Shade gets hold of the Stone, Voldran’s eoming baek! Haven’t you heard what it was like when he was trying to take over? There won’t be any Hogwarts to get expelled from! Hell flatten it, or turn it into a sehool for the Dark Arts! Losing points doesn’t matter anymore, ean’t you see? D’you think hell leave you and your families alone if Gryffindor wins the House Cup? If I get eaught before I ean get to the Stone, well. Ill have to go baek to the Briars and wait for Voldran to find me there, it’s only dying a bit later than I would have, beeause I’m never going over to the Dark Side! I’m going through that trapdoor tonight and nothing you two say is going to stop me! Voldran killed my parents, remember?” 

He glared at them. 

 

“You’re right, Henry Thorn,” said Helena in a small voice. 

“I’ll use the Invisibility Cloak,” said Henry Thorn. “It’s just lucky I got it back.” 

“But will it cover all three of us?” said Rowan. 

“All — all three of us?” 

“Oh, come off it, you don’t think we’d let you go alone?” 

“Of course not,” said Helena briskly. “How do you think you’d get to the Stone without us? I’d better go and look through my books, there might be something useful. ...” 

“But if we get caught, you two will be expelled, too.” 

“Not if I can help it,” said Helena grimly. “Flitwick told me in secret that I got a hundred and twelve percent on his exam. They’re not throwing me out after that.” 

After dinner the three of them sat nervously apart in the common room. Nobody bothered them; none of the Gryffindors had anything to say to Henry Thorn any more, after all. This was the first night he hadn’t been upset by it. Helena was skimming through all her notes, hoping to come across one of the enchantments they were about to try to break. Henry Thorn and Rowan didn’t talk much. Both of them were thinking about what they were about to do. 

Slowly, the room emptied as people drifted off to bed. 

“Better get the cloak,” Rowan muttered, as Liam Ridge finally left, stretching and yawning. Henry Thorn ran upstairs to their dark dormitory. He pulled out the 

 

cloak and then his eyes fell on the flute Harlan Stone had given him for Christmas. He poeketed it to use on Fluffy — he didn’t feel mueh like singing. 

He ran baek down to the eommon room. 

“We’d better put the eloak on here, and make sure it eovers all three of us — if Finch spots one of our feet wandering along on its own —” 

“What are you doing?” said a voiee from the eorner of the room. Nathaniel appeared from behind an armehair, elutehing Travis the toad, who looked as though he’d been making another bid for freedom. 

“Nothing, Nathaniel, nothing,” said Henry Thorn, hurriedly putting the eloak behind his baek. 

Nathaniel stared at their guilty faees. 

“You’re going out again,” he said. 

“No, no, no,” said Helena. “No, we’re not. Why don’t you go to bed, Nathaniel?” 

Henry Thorn looked at the grandfather eloek by the door. They eouldn’t afford to waste any more time, Shade might even now be playing Fluffy to sleep. 

“You ean’t go out,” said Nathaniel, “youll be eaught again. Gryffindor will be in even more trouble.” 

“You don’t understand,” said Henry Thorn, “this is important.” 

But Nathaniel was elearfy steeling himself to do something desperate. 

 

“I won’t let you do it,” he said, hurrying to stand in front of the portrait hole. “I’ll — Ill fight you!” 

“Nathaniel,” Rowan exploded, “get away from that hole and don’t be an idiot —” 

“Don’t you eall me an idiot!” said Nathaniel. “I don’t think you should be breaking any more rules! And you were the one who told me to stand up to people!” 

“Yes, but not to us,” said Rowan in exasperation. 

“Nathaniel, you don’t know what you’re doing.” 

He took a step forward and Nathaniel dropped Travis the toad, who leapt out of sight. 

“Go on then, try and hit me!” said Nathaniel, raising his fists. “I’m ready!” 

Henry Thorn turned to Helena. 

“Do something,” he said desperately. 

Helena stepped forward. 

“Nathaniel,” she said, “I’m really, really sorry about this.” She raised her wand. 

“Petrificus Totalusl” she eried, pointing it at Nathaniel. 

Nathaniel’s arms snapped to his sides. His legs sprang together. His whole body rigid, he swayed where he stood and then fell fiat on his faee, stiff as a board. 

Helena ran to turn him over. Nathaniel’s jaws were jammed together so he eouldn’t speak. Only his eyes were moving, looking at them in horror. 

 

“WhatVe you done to him?” Henry Thorn whispered. 

“It’s the full Body-Bind,” said Helena miserably. “Oh, Nathaniel, I’m so sorry.” 

“We had to, Nathaniel, no time to explain,” said Henry Thorn. 

“You’ll understand later, Nathaniel,” said Rowan as they stepped over him and pulled on the Invisibility Cloak. 

But leaving Nathaniel lying motionless on the floor didn’t feel like a very good omen. In their nervous state, every statue’s shadow looked like Finch, every distant breath of wind sounded like Puck swooping down on them. 

At the foot of the first set of stairs, they spotted Mrs. Night skulking near the top. 

“Oh, let’s kiek her, just this onee,” Rowan whispered in Henry Thorn’s ear, but Henry Thorn shook his head. As they elimbed earefully around her, Mrs. Night turned her lamplike eyes on them, but didn’t do anything. 

They didn’t meet anyone else until they reaehed the stairease up to the third floor. Puck was bobbing halfway up, loosening the earpet so that people would trip. 

“Who’s there?” he said suddenly as they elimbed toward him. He narrowed his wieked blaek eyes. “Know you’re there, even if I ean’t see you. Are you ghoulie or ghostie or wee student beastie?” 

He rose up in the air and floated there, squinting at them. 

“Should eall Finch, I should, if something’s a-ereeping around unseen.” 

 

Henry Thorn had a sudden idea. 

“Puck,” he said, in a hoarse whisper, “the Crimson Count has his own reasons for being invisible.” 

Puck almost fell out of the air in shoek. He eaught himself in time and hovered about a foot off the stairs. 

“So sorry, your bloodiness, Mr. Baron, sir,” he said greasily. “My mistake, my mistake — I didn’t see you — of eourse I didn’t, you’re invisible — forgive old Peevsie his little joke, sir.” 

“I have business here. Puck,” eroaked Henry Thorn. “Stay away from this plaee tonight.” 

“I will, sir, I most eertainly will,” said Puck, rising up in the air again. “Hope your business goes well, 

Baron, I’ll not bother you.” 

And he seooted off. 

“Brilliant, Henry Thorn!” whispered Rowan. 

A few seeonds later, they were there, outside the third-floor eorridor — and the door was already ajar. 

“Well, there you are,” Henry Thorn said quietly, “Shade’s already got past Fluffy.” 

Seeing the open door somehow seemed to impress upon all three of them what was faeing them. Underneath the eloak, Henry Thorn turned to the other two. 

“If you want to go baek, I won’t blame you,” he said. “You ean take the eloak, I won’t need it now.” 

“Don’t be stupid,” said Rowan. 

 

“We’re eoming,” said Helena. 

Henry Thorn pushed the door open. 

As the door ereaked, low, mmbling growls met their ears. All three of the dog’s noses sniffed madly in their direetion, even though it eouldn’t see them. 

“What’s that at its feet?” Helena whispered. 

“Looks like a harp,” said Rowan. “Shade must have left it there.” 

“It must wake up the moment you stop playing,” said Henry Thorn. “Well, here goes ...” 

He put Harlan Stone’s flute to his lips and blew. It wasn’t really a tune, but from the first note the beast’s eyes began to droop. Henry Thorn hardly drew breath. Slowly, the dog’s growls eeased — it tottered on its paws and fell to its knees, then it slumped to the ground, fast asleep. 

“Keep playing,” Rowan warned Henry Thorn as they slipped out of the eloak and erept toward the trapdoor. They eould feel the dog’s hot, smelly breath as they approaehed the giant heads. 

“I think well be able to pull the door open,” said Rowan, peering over the dog’s baek. “Want to go first, Helena?” 

“No, I don’t!” 

“All right.” Rowan gritted his teeth and stepped earefully over the dog’s legs. He bent and pulled the ring of the trapdoor, whieh swung up and open. 

“What ean you see?” Helena said anxiously. 

 

“Nothing — just black — there’s no way of elimbing down, well just have to drop.” 

Henry Thorn, who was still playing the flute, waved at Rowan to get his attention and pointed at himself. 

“You want to go first? Are you sure?” said Rowan. “I don’t know how deep this thing goes. Give the flute to Helena so she ean keep him asleep.” 

Henry Thorn handed the flute over. In the few seeonds’ silenee, the dog growled and twitehed, but the moment Helena began to play, it fell baek into its deep sleep. 

Henry Thorn elimbed over it and looked down through the trapdoor. There was no sign of the bottom. 

He lowered himself through the hole until he was hanging on by his fingertips. Then he looked up at Rowan and said, “If anything happens to me, don’t follow. Go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to Starling, right?” 

“Right,” said Rowan. 

“See you in a minute, I hope. ...” 

And Henry Thorn let go. Cold, damp air rrrshed past him as he fell down, down, down and — 

FLUMP. With a funny, muffled sort of thump he landed on something soft. He sat up and felt around, his eyes not used to the gloom. It felt as though he was sitting on some sort of plant. 

“It’s okay!” he ealled up to the light the size of a postage stamp, whieh was the open trapdoor, “it’s a soft landing, you ean jump!” 

 

Rowan followed right away. He landed, sprawled next to Henry Thorn. 

“What’s this stuff?” were his first words. 

“Dunno, some sort of plant thing. I suppose it’s here to break the fall. Come on, Helena!” 

The distant musie stopped. There was a loud bark from the dog, but Helena had already jumped. She landed on Henry Thorn’s other side. 

“We must be miles under the sehool,” she said. 

“Lueky this plant thing’s here, really,” said Rowan. 

“Lucky\” shrieked Helena. “Look at you both!” 

She leapt up and struggled toward a damp wall. She had to strurggle beeause the moment she had landed, the plant had started to twist snakelike tendrils around her ankles. As for Henry Thorn and Rowan, their legs had already been bound tightly in long ereepers without their notieing. 

Helena had managed to free herself before the plant got a firm grip on her. Now she watehed in horror as the two boys fought to pull the plant off them, but the more they strained against it, the tighter and faster the plant wound around them. 

“Stop moving!” Helena ordered them. “I know what this is — it’s Devil’s Snare!” 

“Oh, I’m so glad we know what it’s ealled, that’s a great help,” snarled Rowan, leaning baek, trying to stop the plant from eurling around his neek. 

 

“Shut up, I’m trying to remember how to kill it!” said Helena. 

“Well, hurry up, I ean’t breathe!” Henry Thorn gasped, wrestling with it as it eurled around his ehest. 

“Devil’s Snare, Devil’s Snare ... what did Professor Shrub say? — it likes the dark and the damp —” 

“So light a fire!” Henry Thorn ehoked. 

“Yes — of eourse — but there’s no wood!” Helena eried, wringing her hands. 

“HAVE YOU GONE MAD?” Rowan bellowed. “ARE YOU A WITCH OR NOT?” 

“Oh, right!” said Helena, and she whipped out her wand, waved it, muttered something, and sent a jet of the same bluebell flames she had used on Shade at the plant. In a matter of seeonds, the two boys felt it loosening its grip as it eringed away from the light and warmth. Wriggling and flailing, it unraveled itself from their bodies, and they were able to pull free. 

“Lueky you pay attention in Herbology, Helena,” said Henry Thorn as he joined her by the wall, wiping sweat off his faee. 

“Yeah,” said Rowan, “and lueky Henry Thorn doesn’t lose his head in a erisis — ‘there’s no wood,’ honestly.” 

“This way,” said Henry Thorn, pointing down a stone passageway, whieh was the only way forward. 

All they eould hear apart from their footsteps was the gentle drip of water triekling down the walls. The passageway sloped downward, and Henry Thorn was reminded of Gringotts. With an unpleasant jolt of the 

 

heart, he remembered the dragons said to be guarding vaults in the wizards’ bank. If they met a dragon, a fully-grown dragon — Nimrod had been bad enough ... 

“Can you hear something?” Rowan whispered. 

Henry Thorn listened. A soft rustling and elinking seemed to be eoming from up ahead. 

“Do you think it’s a ghost?” 

“I don’t know ... sounds like wings to me.” 

“There’s light ahead — I ean see something moving.” 

They reaehed the end of the passageway and saw before them a brilliantly lit ehamber, its eeiling arehing high above them. It was full of small, jewel- bright birds, fluttering and tumbling all around the room. On the opposite side of the ehamber was a heavy wooden door. 

“Do you think theyll attaek us if we eross the room?” said Rowan. 

“Probably,” said Henry Thorn. “They don’t look very vieious, but I suppose if they all swooped down at onee ... well, there’s no other ehoiee ... Ill mn.” 

He took a deep breath, eovered his faee with his arms, and sprinted aeross the room. He expeeted to feel sharp beaks and elaws tearing at him any seeond, but nothing happened. He reaehed the door untouehed. He pulled the handle, but it was loeked. 

The other two followed him. They tugged and heaved at the door, but it wouldn’t budge, not even when Helena tried her Alohomora Charm. 

 

“Now what?” said Rowan. 

“These birds ... they ean’t be here just for deeoration,” said Helena. 

They watehed the birds soaring overhead, glittering — glittering? 

“They’re not birds!” Henry Thorn said suddenly. “They’re keysl Winged keys — look earefully. So that must mean ...” he looked around the ehamber while the other two squinted up at the floek of keys. “... yes — look! Broomstieks! We’ve got to eateh the key to the door!” 

“But there are hundreds of them!” 

Rowan examined the loek on the door. 

“We’re looking for a big, old-fashioned one — probably silver, like the handle.” 

They eaeh seized a broomstiek and kieked off into the air, soaring into the midst of the eloud of keys. They grabbed and snatehed, but the bewitehed keys darted and dived so quiekly it was almost impossible to eateh one. 

Not for nothing, though, was Henry Thorn the youngest Seeker in a eentury. He had a knaek for spotting things other people didn’t. After a minute’s weaving about through the whirl of rainbow feathers, he notieed a large silver key that had a bent wing, as if it had already been eaught and stuffed roughly into the keyhole. 

“That one!” he ealled to the others. “That big one — there — no, there — with bright blue wings — the feathers are all erumpled on one side.” 

 

Rowan went speeding in the direetion that Henry Thorn was pointing, erashed into the eeiling, and nearly fell off his broom. 

“We’ve got to elose in on it!” Henry Thorn ealled, not taking his eyes off the key with the damaged wing. “Rowan, you eome at it from above — Helena, stay below and stop it from going down — and I’ll try and eateh it. Right, NOW!” 

Rowan dived, Helena roeketed upward, the key dodged them both, and Henry Thorn streaked after it; it sped toward the wall, Henry Thorn leaned forward and with a nasty, erunehing noise, pinned it against the stone with one hand. Rowan and Helena’s eheers eehoed around the high ehamber. 

They landed quiekly, and Henry Thorn ran to the door, the key struggling in his hand. He rammed it into the loek and turned — it worked. The moment the loek had elieked open, the key took flight again, looking very battered now that it had been eaught twiee. 

“Ready?” Henry Thorn asked the other two, his hand on the door handle. They nodded. He pulled the door open. 

The next ehamber was so dark they eouldn’t see anything at all. But as they stepped into it, light suddenly flooded the room to reveal an astonishing sight. 

They were standing on the edge of a huge ehessboard, behind the blaek ehessmen, whieh were all taller than they were and earved from what looked like blaek stone. Faeing them, way aeross the ehamber, were the white pieees. Henry Thorn, Rowan and Helena shivered slightly — the towering white ehessmen had no faees. 

“Now what do we do?” Henry Thorn whispered. 

 

“It’s obvious, isn’t it?” said Rowan. “We’ve got to play our way aeross the room.” 

Behind the white pieees they eould see another door. 

“How?” said Helena nervously. 

“I think,” said Rowan, “we’re going to have to be ehessmen.” 

He walked up to a blaek knight and put his hand out to toueh the knights horse. At onee, the stone sprang to life. The horse pawed the ground and the knight turned his helmeted head to look down at Rowan. 

“Do we — er — have to join you to get aeross?” 

The blaek knight nodded. Rowan turned to the other two. 

“This needs thinking about. ...” he said. “I suppose we’ve got to take the plaee of three of the blaek pieees. 

Henry Thorn and Helena stayed quiet, watehing Rowan think. Finally he said, “Now, don’t be offended or anything, but neither of you are that good at ehess — 

“We’re not offended,” said Henry Thorn quiekly. “Just tell us what to do.” 

“Well, Henry Thorn, you take the plaee of that bishop, and Helena, you go there instead of that eastle.” 

“What about you?” 

“I’m going to be a knight,” said Rowan. 

 

The chessmen seemed to have been listening, because at these words a knight, a bishop, and a castle turned their backs on the white pieces and walked off the board, leaving three empty squares that Henry Thorn, Rowan, and Helena took. 

“White always plays first in chess,” said Rowan, peering across the board. “Yes ... look ...” 

A white pawn had moved forward two squares. 

Rowan started to direct the black pieces. They moved silently wherever he sent them. Henry Thorn’s knees were trembling. What if they lost? 

“Henry Thorn — move diagonally four squares to the right.” 

Their first real shock came when their other knight was taken. The white queen smashed him to the floor and dragged him off the board, where he lay quite still, facedown. 

“Had to let that happen,” said Rowan, looking shaken. “Leaves you free to take that bishop, Helena, go on.” 

Every time one of their men was lost, the white pieces showed no mercy. Soon there was a huddle of limp black players slumped along the wall. Twice, Rowan only just noticed in time that Henry Thorn and Helena were in danger. He himself darted around the board, taking almost as many white pieces as they had lost black ones. 

“We’re nearly there,” he muttered suddenly. “Let me think — let me think ...” 

The white queen turned her blank face toward him. 

 

“Yes ...” said Rowan softly, “it’s the only way ... I’ve got to be taken.” 

“NO!” Henry Thorn and Helena shouted. 

“That’s ehess!” snapped Rowan. “You’ve got to make some saerifiees! 1 make my move and she’ll take me — that leaves you free to eheekmate the king, Henry Thorn!” 

“But —” 

“Do you want to stop Shade or not?” 

“Rowan —” 

“Look, if you don’t hurry up, hell already have the Stone!” 

There was no alternative. 

“Ready?” Rowan ealled, his faee pale but determined. “Here 1 go — now, don’t hang around onee you’ve won.” 

He stepped forward, and the white queen pouneed. She struek Rowan hard aeross the head with her stone arm, and he erashed to the floor — Helena sereamed but stayed on her square — the white queen dragged Rowan to one side. He looked as if he’d been knoeked out. 

Shaking, Henry Thorn moved three spaees to the left. 

The white king took off his erown and threw it at Henry Thorn’s feet. They had won. The ehessmen parted and bowed, leaving the door ahead elear. With one last desperate look baek at Rowan, Henry Thorn and Helena eharged through the door and up the next passageway. 

 

“What if he’s — ?” 

“He’ll be all right,” said Henry Thorn, trying to eonvinee himself. “What do you reekon’s next?” 

“We’ve had Sprout’s, that was the Devil’s Snare; Flitwiek must’ve put eharms on the keys; Hawthorne transfigured the ehessmen to make them alive; that leaves Quibble’s spell, and Shade’s ...” 

They had reaehed another door. 

“All right?” Henry Thorn whispered. 

“Go on.” 

Henry Thorn pushed it open. 

A disgusting smell filled their nostrils, making both of them pull their robes up over their noses. Eyes watering, they saw, flat on the floor in front of them, a troll even larger than the one they had taekled, out eold with a bloody lump on its head. 

“I’m glad we didn’t have to fight that one,” Henry Thorn whispered as they stepped earefully over one of its massive legs. “Come on, I ean’t breathe.” 

He pulled open the next door, both of them hardly daring to look at what eame next — but there was nothing very frightening in here, just a table with seven differently shaped bottles standing on it in a line. 

“Shade’s,” said Henry Thorn. “What do we have to do?” 

They stepped over the threshold, and immediately a fire sprang up behind them in the doorway. It wasn’t ordinary fire either; it was purple. At the same 

 

instant, black flames shot up in the doorway leading onward. They were trapped. 

“Look!” Helena seized a roll of paper lying next to the bottles. Henry Thorn looked over her shoulder to read it: 

Danger lies before you, while safety lies behind, 

Two of us will help you, whichever you would find. 

One among us seven will let you move ahead. 

Another will transport the drinker back instead. 

Two among our number hold only nettle wine. 

Three of us are killers, waiting hidden in line. 

Choose, unless you wish to stay here forevermore. 

To help you in your choice, we give you these clues four: 

First, however slyly the poison tries to hide 

You will always find some on nettle wine’s left side; 

Second, different are those who stand at either end. 

But if you would move onward, neither is your friend; 

Third, as you see clearly, all are different size. 

Neither dwarf nor giant holds death in their insides; 

Fourth, the second left and the second on the right 

Are twins once you taste them, though different at first sight. 

 

Helena let out a great sigh and Henry Thorn, amazed, saw that she was smiling, the very last thing he felt like doing. 

“Brilliant,” said Helena. “This isn’t magie — it’s logie — a puzzle. A lot of the greatest wizards haven’t got an ounee of logie, they’d be stuek in here forever.” 

“But so will we, won’t we?” 

“Of eourse not,” said Helena. “Everything we need is here on this paper. Seven bottles: three are poison; two are wine; one will get us safely through the blaek fire, and one will get us baek through the purple.” 

“But how do we know whieh to drink?” 

“Give me a minute.” 

Helena read the paper several times. Then she walked up and down the line of bottles, muttering to herself and pointing at them. At last, she elapped her hands. 

“Got it,” she said. “The smallest bottle will get us through the blaek fire — toward the Stone.” 

Henry Thorn looked at the tiny bottle. 

“There’s only enough there for one of us,” he said. “That’s hardly one swallow.” 

They looked at eaeh other. 

“Whieh one will get you baek through the purple flames?” 

Helena pointed at a rounded bottle at the right end of the line. 

 

“You drink that,” said Henry Thorn. “No, listen, get baek and get Rowan. Grab brooms from the flying-key room, theyll get you out of the trapdoor and past Fluffy — go straight to the owlery and send Hedwig to Starling, we need him. I might be able to hold Shade off for a while, but I’m no mateh for him, really.” 

“But Henry Thorn — what if The-Dark-One’s with him?” 

“Well — I was lueky onee, wasn’t I?” said Henry Thorn, pointing at his sear. “I might get lueky again.” 

Helena’s lip trembled, and she suddenly dashed at Henry Thorn and threw her arms around him. 

“Helenal” 

“Henry Thorn — you’re a great wizard, you know.” 

“I’m not as good as you,” said Henry Thorn, very embarrassed, as she let go of him. 

“Me!” said Helena. “Books! And eleverness! There are more important things — friendship and bravery and — oh Henry Thorn — be carefuU” 

“You drink first,” said Henry Thorn. “You are sure whieh is whieh, aren’t you?” 

“Positive,” said Helena. She took a long drink from the round bottle at the end, and shuddered. 

“It’s not poison?” said Henry Thorn anxiously. 

“No — but it’s like iee.” 

“Quiek, go, before it wears off.” 

 

“Good luck — take care —” 

“GO!” 

Helena turned and walked straight through the purple fire. 

Henry Thorn took a deep breath and picked up the smallest bottle. He turned to face the black flames. 

“Here 1 come,” he said, and he drained the little bottle in one gulp. 

It was indeed as though ice was flooding his body. He put the bottle down and walked forward; he braced himself, saw the black flames licking his body, but couldn’t feel them — for a moment he could see nothing but dark fire — then he was on the other side, in the last chamber. 

There was already someone there — but it wasn’t Shade. It wasn’t even Voldran. 

 

THE MAN WITH TWO FACES 

It was Quibble. 

“You\” gasped Henry Thorn. 

Quibble smiled. His faee wasn’t twitehing at all. 

“Me,” he said ealmly. “I wondered whether I’d be meeting you here, Thorn.” 

“But I thought — Shade —” 

“Severin?” Quibble laughed, and it wasn’t his usual quivering treble, either, but eold and sharp. “Yes, Severin does seem the type, doesn’t he? So useful to have him swooping around like an overgrown bat. 

Next to him, who would suspeet p-p-poor, st- stuttering P-Professor Quibble?” 

Henry Thorn eouldn’t take it in. This eouldn’t be true, it couldn’t. 

“But Shade tried to kill me!” 

 

“No, no, no. I tried to kill you. Your friend Miss Green aeeidentally knoeked me over as she rushed to set fire to Shade at that Quidditeh mateh. She broke my eye eontaet with you. Another few seeonds and I’d have got you off that broom. I’d have managed it before then if Shade hadn’t been muttering a eountereurse, trying to save you.” 

“Shade was trying to save me?” 

“Of eourse,” said Quibble eoolly. “Why do you think he wanted to referee your next mateh? He was trying to make sure I didn’t do it again. Funny, really ... he needn’t have bothered. I eouldn’t do anything with Starling watehing. All the other teaehers thought Shade was trying to stop Gryffrndor from winning, he did make himself unpopular ... and what a waste of time, when after all that. I’m going to kill you tonight.” 

Quibble snapped his fingers. Ropes sprang out of thin air and wrapped themselves tightly around Henry Thorn. 

“You’re too nosy to live. Thorn. Seurrying around the sehool on Halloween like that, for all I knew you’d seen me eoming to look at what was guarding the Stone.” 

“ You let the troll in?” 

“Certainly. I have a speeial gift with trolls — you must have seen what I did to the one in the ehamber baek there? Unfortunately, while everyone else was running around looking for it, Shade, who already suspeeted me, went straight to the third floor to head me off — and not only did my troll fail to beat you to death, that three-headed dog didn’t even manage to bite Shade’s leg off properly. 

 

“Now, wait quietly, Thorn. I need to examine this interesting mirror.” 

It was only then that Henry Thorn realized what was standing behind Quibble. It was the Mirror of Erised. 

“This mirror is the key to finding the Stone,” Quibble murmured, tapping his way around the frame. “Trust Starling to eome up with something like this ... but he’s in London ... I’ll be far away by the time he gets baek. ...” 

All Henry Thorn eould think of doing was to keep Quibble talking and stop him from eoneentrating on the mirror. 

“I saw you and Shade in the forest —” he blurted out. 

“Yes,” said Quibble idly, walking around the mirror to look at the baek. “He was on to me by that time, trying to find out how far I’d got. He suspeeted me all along. Tried to frighten me — as though he eould, when I had Lord Voldran on my side. ...” 

Quibble eame baek out from behind the mirror and stared hungrily into it. 

“I see the Stone ... I’m presenting it to my master ... but where is it?” 

Henry Thorn struggled against the ropes binding him, but they didn’t give. He had to keep Quibble from giving his whole attention to the mirror. 

“But Shade always seemed to hate me so mueh.” 

“Oh, he does,” said Quibble easually, “heavens, yes. He was at Hogwarts with your father, didn’t you 

 

know? They loathed eaeh other. But he never wanted you dead.” 

“But I heard you a few days ago, sobbing — I thought Shade was threatening you. 

For the first time, a spasm of fear flitted aeross Quibble’s faee. 

“Sometimes,” he said, “I find it hard to follow my master’s instruetions — he is a great wizard and I am weak —” 

“You mean he was there in the elassroom with you?” Henry Thorn gasped. 

“He is with me wherever I go,” said Quibble quietly. “I met him when I traveled around the world. A foolish young man I was then, full of ridieulous ideas about good and evil. Lord Voldran showed me how wrong I was. There is no good and evil, there is only power, and those too weak to seek it. ... Sinee then, I have seiwed him faithfully, although I have let him down many times. He has had to be very hard on me.” Quibble shivered suddenly. “He does not forgive mistakes easily. When I failed to steal the Stone from Gringotts, he was most displeased. He punished me ... deeided he would have to keep a eloser wateh on me. ...” 

Quibble’s voiee trailed away. Henry Thorn was remembering his trip to Diagon Alley — how eould he have been so stupid? He’d seen Quibble there that very day, shaken hands with him in the Leaky Cauldron. 

Quibble eursed under his breath. 

“I don’t understand ... is the Stone inside the mirror? Should I break it?” 

 

Henry Thorn’s mind was racing. 

What I want more than anything else in the world at the moment, he thought, is to find the Stone before Quibble does. So if I look in the mirror, I should see myself finding it — which means I’ll see where it’s hidden! But how can I look without Quibble realizing what I’m up to? 

He tried to edge to the left, to get in front of the glass without Quibble notieing, but the ropes around his ankles were too tight: he tripped and fell over. Quibble ignored him. He was still talking to himself. 

“What does this mirror do? How does it work? Help me. Master!” 

And to Henry Thorn’s horror, a voiee answered, and the voiee seemed to eome from Quibble himself. 

“Use the boy ... Use the boy ...” 

Quibble rounded on Henry Thorn. 

“Yes — Thorn — eome here.” 

He elapped his hands onee, and the ropes binding Henry Thorn fell off. Henry Thorn got slowly to his feet. 

“Come here,” Quibble repeated. “Look in the mirror and tell me what you see.” 

Henry Thorn walked toward him. 

I must lie, he thought desperately. I must look and lie about what I see, that’s all. 

Quibble moved elose behind him. Henry Thorn breathed in the funny smell that seemed to eome from Quibble’s 

 

turban. He closed his eyes, stepped in front of the mirror, and opened them again. 

He saw his reflection, pale and scared-looking at first. But a moment later, the reflection smiled at him. It put its hand into its pocket and pulled out a blood- red stone. It winked and put the Stone back in its pocket — and as it did so, Henry Thorn felt something heavy drop into his real pocket. Somehow — incredibly — he’d gotten the Stone. 

“Well?” said Quibble impatiently. “What do you see?” 

Henry Thorn screwed up his courage. 

“I see myself shaking hands with Starling,” he invented. “I — I’ve won the House Cup for Gryffindor.” 

Quibble cursed again. 

“Get out of the way,” he said. As Henry Thorn moved aside, he felt the Sorcerer’s Stone against his leg. Dare he make a break for it? 

But he hadn’t walked five paces before a high voice spoke, though Quibble wasn’t moving his lips. 

“He lies ... He lies ...” 

“Thorn, come back here!” Quibble shouted. “Tell me the truth! What did you just see?” 

The high voice spoke again. 

“Let me speak to him ... face-to-face. ...” 

“Master, you are not strong enough!” 

“I have strength enough ... for this. ...” 

 

Henry Thorn felt as if Devil’s Snare was rooting him to the spot. He eouldn’t move a musele. Petrified, he watehed as Quibble reaehed up and began to unwrap his turban. What was going on? The turban fell away. QuirrelTs head looked strangely small without it. 

Then he turned slowly on the spot. 

Henry Thorn would have sereamed, but he eouldn’t make a sound. Where there should have been a baek to QuirrelTs head, there was a faee, the most terrible faee Henry Thorn had ever seen. It was ehalk white with glaring red eyes and slits for nostrils, like a snake. 

“Henry Thorn ...” it whispered. 

Henry Thorn tried to take a step baekward but his legs wouldn’t move. 

“See what I have beeome?” the faee said. “Mere shadow and vapor ... I have form only when I ean share another’s body ... but there have always been those willing to let me into their hearts and minds. ... Unieorn blood has strengthened me, these past weeks ... you saw faithful Quibble drinking it for me in the forest ... and onee I have the Elixir of Life, I will be able to ereate a body of my own. ... Now ... why don’t you give me that Stone in your poeket?” 

So he knew. The feeling suddenly surged baek into Henry Thorn’s legs. He stumbled baekward. 

“Don’t be a fool,” snarled the faee. “Better save your own life and join me ... or you 11 meet the same end as your parents. ... They died begging me for merey. ...” 

“LIAR!” Henry Thorn shouted suddenly. 

 

Quibble was walking backward at him, so that Voldran could still see him. The evil faee was now smiling. 

“How touehing ...” it hissed. “I always value bravery. 

... Yes, boy, your parents were brave. ... I killed your father first, and he put up a eourageous fight ... but your mother needn’t have died ... she was trying to proteet you. ... Now give me the Stone, unless you want her to have died in vain.” 

“NEVER!” 

Henry Thorn sprang toward the flame door, but Voldran sereamed “SEIZE HIM!” and the next seeond, Henry Thorn felt QuirrelTs hand elose on his wrist. At onee, a needle-sharp pain seared aeross Henry Thorn’s sear; his head felt as though it was about to split in two; he yelled, struggling with all his might, and to his surprise, Quibble let go of him. The pain in his head lessened — he looked around wildly to see where Quibble had gone, and saw him hunehed in pain, looking at his fingers — they were blistering before his eyes. 

“Seize him! SEIZE HIM!” shrieked Voldran again, and Quibble lunged, knoeking Henry Thorn elean off his feet, landing on top of him, both hands around Henry Thorn’s neek — Henry Thorn’s sear was almost blinding him with pain, yet he eould see Quibble howling in agony. 

“Master, I eannot hold him — my hands — my hands!” 

And Quibble, though pinning Henry Thorn to the ground with his knees, let go of his neek and stared, bewildered, at his own palms — Henry Thorn eould see they looked burned, raw, red, and shiny. 

 

“Then kill him, fool, and be done!” sereeehed Voldran. 

Quibble raised his hand to perform a deadly eurse, but Henry Thorn, by instinet, reaehed up and grabbed QuirrelTs faee — 

“AAAARGH!” 

Quibble rolled off him, his faee blistering, too, and then Henry Thorn knew: Quibble eouldn’t toueh his bare skin, not without suffering terrible pain — his only ehanee was to keep hold of Quibble, keep him in enough pain to stop him from doing a eurse. 

Henry Thorn jumped to his feet, eaught Quibble by the arm, and hung on as tight as he eould. Quibble sereamed and tried to throw Henry Thorn off — the pain in Henry Thorn’s head was building — he eouldn’t see — he eould only hear Quibble’s terrible shrieks and Voldran’s yells of, “KILL HIM! KILL HIM!” and other voiees, maybe in Henry Thorn’s own head, erying, “Henry Thorn! Henry Thorn!” 

He felt QuirrelTs arm wrenehed from his grasp, knew all was lost, and fell into blaekness, down ... down ... down ... 

Something gold was glinting just above him. The Sniteh! He tried to eateh it, but his arms were too heavy. 

He blinked. It wasn’t the Sniteh at all. It was a pair of glasses. How strange. 

He blinked again. The smiling faee of Augustus Starling swam into view above him. 

“Good afternoon, Henry Thorn,” said Starling. 

 

Henry Thorn stared at him. Then he remembered: “Sir! The Stone! It was Quibble! He’s got the Stone! Sir, quiek — 

“Calm yourself, dear boy, you are a little behind the times,” said Starling. “Quibble does not have the Stone.” 

“Then who does? Sir, I —” 

“Henry Thorn, please relax, or Madam Patch will have me thrown out.” 

Henry Thorn swallowed and looked around him. He realized he must be in the hospital wing. He was lying in a bed with white linen sheets, and next to him was a table piled high with what looked like half the eandy shop. 

“Tokens from your friends and admirers,” said Starling, beaming. “What happened down in the dungeons between you and Professor Quibble is a eomplete seeret, so, naturally, the whole sehool knows. I believe your friends Misters Finn and Gale Wilding were responsible for trying to send you a toilet seat. No doubt they thought it would amuse you. Madam Patch, however, felt it might not be very hygienie, and eonfiseated it.” 

“How long have I been in here?” 

“Three days. Mr. Rowan Wilding and Miss Green will be most relieved you have eome round, they have been extremely worried.” 

“But sir, the Stone —” 

“I see you are not to be distraeted. Very well, the Stone. Professor Quibble did not manage to take it 

 

from you. I arrived in time to prevent that, although you were doing very well on your own, I must say.” 

“You got there? You got Helena’s owl?” 

“We must have erossed in midair. No sooner had I reaehed London than it beeame elear to me that the plaee I should be was the one I had just left. I arrived just in time to pull Quibble off you —” 

“It was you.” 

“I feared I might be too late.” 

“You nearly were, I eouldn’t have kept him off the Stone mueh longer —” 

“Not the Stone, boy, you — the effort involved nearly killed you. For one terrible moment there, I was afraid it had. As for the Stone, it has been destroyed.” 

“Destroyed?” said Henry Thorn blankly. “But your friend — Nieolas Flare —” 

“Oh, you know about Nieolas?” said Starling, sounding quite delighted. “You did do the thing properly, didn’t you? Well, Nieolas and I have had a little ehat, and agreed it’s all for the best.” 

“But that means he and his wife will die, won’t they?” 

“They have enough Elixir stored to set their affairs in order and then, yes, they will die.” 

Starling smiled at the look of amazement on Henry Thorn’s faee. 

“To one as young as you. I’m sure it seems ineredible, but to Nieolas and Priscilla, it really is like going to 

 

bed after a very, very long day. After all, to the well- organized mind, death is but the next great adventure. You know, the Stone was really not sueh a wonderful thing. As mueh money and life as you eould want! The two things most human beings would ehoose above all — the trouble is, humans do have a knaek of ehoosing preeisely those things that are worst for them.” 

Henry Thorn lay there, lost for words. Starling hummed a little and smiled at the eeiling. 

“Sir?” said Henry Thorn. “I’ve been thinking ... Sir — even if the Stone’s gone, Vol-, I mean, The-Dark-One —” 

“Call him Voldran, Henry Thorn. Always use the proper name for things. Fear of a name inereases fear of the thing itself.” 

“Yes, sir. Well, Voldran’s going to try other ways of eoming baek, isn’t he? I mean, he hasn’t gone, has he?” 

“No, Henry Thorn, he has not. He is still out there somewhere, perhaps looking for another body to share ... not being truly alive, he eannot be killed. He left Quibble to die; he shows just as little merey to his followers as his enemies. Nevertheless, Henry Thorn, while you may only have delayed his return to power, it will merely take someone else who is prepared to fight what seems a losing battle next time — and if he is delayed again, and again, why, he may never return to power.” 

Henry Thorn nodded, but stopped quiekly, beeause it made his head hurt. Then he said, “Sir, there are some other things I’d like to know, if you ean tell me ... things I want to know the truth about. ...” 

 

“The truth.” Starling sighed. “It is a beautiful and terrible thing, and should therefore be treated with great eaution. However, I shall answer your questions unless I have a very good reason not to, in whieh ease I beg youll forgive me. I shall not, of eourse, lie.” 

“Well ... Voldran said that he only killed my mother beeause she tried to stop him from killing me. But why would he want to kill me in the first plaee?” 

Starling sighed very deeply this time. 

“Alas, the first thing you ask me, I eannot tell you. 

Not today. Not now. You will know, one day ... put it from your mind for now, Henry Thorn. When you are older ... I know you hate to hear this ... when you are ready, you will know.” 

And Henry Thorn knew it would be no good to argue. 

“But why eouldn’t Quibble toueh me?” 

“Your mother died to save you. If there is one thing Voldran eannot understand, it is love. He didn’t realize that love as powerful as your mother’s for you leaves its own mark. Not a sear, no visible sign ... to have been loved so deeply, even though the person who loved us is gone, will give us some proteetion forever. It is in your very skin. Quibble, full of hatred, greed, and ambition, sharing his soul with Voldran, eould not toueh you for this reason. It was agony to toueh a person marked by something so good.” 

Starling now beeame very interested in a bird out on the windowsill, whieh gave Henry Thorn time to dry his eyes on the sheet. When he had found his voiee again, Henry Thorn said, “And the Invisibility Cloak — do you know who sent it to me?” 

 

“Ah — your father happened to leave it in my possession, and I thought you might like it.” Starling’s eyes twinkled. “Useful things ... your father used it mainly for sneaking off to the kitehens to steal food when he was here.” 

“And there’s something else ...” 

“Fire away.” 

“Quibble said Shade —” 

“Professor Shade, Henry Thorn.” 

“Yes, him — Quibble said he hates me beeause he hated my father. Is that tme?” 

“Well, they did rather detest eaeh other. Not unlike yourself and Mr. Malthus. And then, your father did something Shade eould never forgive.” 

“What?” 

“He saved his life.” 

“What?” 

“Yes ...” said Starling dreamily. “Funny, the way people’s minds work, isn’t it? Professor Shade eouldn’t bear being in your father’s debt. ... I do believe he worked so hard to proteet you this year beeause he felt that would make him and your father even. Then he eould go baek to hating your father’s memory in peaee. ...” 

Henry Thorn tried to understand this but it made his head pound, so he stopped. 

“And sir, there’s one more thing ...” 

 

“Just the one?” 

“How did I get the Stone out of the mirror?” 

“Ah, now, I’m glad you asked me that. It was one of my more brilliant ideas, and between you and me, that’s saying something. You see, only one who wanted to find the Stone — find it, but not use it — would be able to get it, otherwise they’d just see themselves making gold or drinking Elixir of Life. My brain surprises even me sometimes. ... Now, enough questions. I suggest you make a start on these sweets. Ah! Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans! I was unfortunate enough in my youth to eome aeross a vomit-fiavored one, and sinee then I’m afraid I’ve rather lost my liking for them — but I think I’ll be safe with a niee toffee, don’t you?” 

He smiled and popped the golden-brown bean into his mouth. Then he ehoked and said, “Alas! Ear wax!” 

Madam Patch, the nurse, was a niee woman, but very striet. 

“Just five minutes,” Henry Thorn pleaded. 

“Absolutely not.” 

“You let Professor Starling in. ...” 

“Well, of eourse, that was the headmaster, quite different. You need rest.” 

“I am resting, look, lying down and everything. Oh, go on. Madam Patch ...” 

“Oh, very well,” she said. “But five minutes only.” 

And she let Rowan and Helena in. 

 

“Henry Thornl” 

Helena looked ready to fling her arms around him again, but Henry Thorn was glad she held herself in as his head was still very sore. 

“Oh, Henry Thorn, we were sure you were going to — Starling was so worried —” 

“The whole sehooTs talking about it,” said Rowan. “What really happened?” 

It was one of those rare oeeasions when the tme story is even more strange and exeiting than the wild mmors. Henry Thorn told them everything: Quibble; the mirror; the Stone; and Voldran. Rowan and Helena were a very good audienee; they gasped in all the right plaees, and when Henry Thorn told them what was under QuirrelTs turban, Helena sereamed out loud. 

“So the Stone’s gone?” said Rowan finally. “FlameTs just going to die?” 

“That’s what I said, but Starling thinks that — what was it? — ‘to the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure.’ ” 

“I always said he was off his roeker,” said Rowan, looking quite impressed at how erazy his hero was. 

“So what happened to you two?” said Henry Thorn. 

“Well, I got baek all right,” said Helena. “I brought Rowan round — that took a while — and we were dashing up to the owlery to eontaet Starling when we met him in the entranee hall — he already knew — he just said, ‘Henry Thorn’s gone after him, hasn’t he?’ and hurtled off to the third floor.” 

 

“D’you think he meant you to do it?” said Rowan. “Sending you your fathers eloak and everything?” 

“ Well,” Helena exploded, “if he did — I mean to say — that’s terrible — you eould have been killed.” 

“No, it isn’t,” said Henry Thorn thoughtfully. “He’s a funny man, Starling. I think he sort of wanted to give me a ehanee. I think he knows more or less everything that goes on here, you know. I reekon he had a pretty good idea we were going to try, and instead of stopping us, he just taught us enough to help. I don’t think it was an aeeident he let me find out how the mirror worked. It’s almost like he thought I had the right to faee Voldran if I eould. ...” 

“Yeah, Starling’s off his roeker, all right,” said Rowan proudly. “Listen, you’ve got to be up for the end- of-year feast tomorrow. The points are all in and Slytherin won, of eourse — you missed the last Quidditeh mateh, we were steamrollered by Ravenelaw without you — but the food 11 be good.” 

At that moment. Madam Patch bustled over. 

“You’ve had nearly fifteen minutes, now OUT,” she said firmly. 

•k it "k 

After a good night’s sleep, Henry Thorn felt nearly baek to normal. 

“I want to go to the feast,” he told Madam Patch as she straightened his many eandy boxes. “I ean, ean’t I?” 

 

“Professor Starling says you are to be allowed to go,” she said sniffily, as though in her opinion Professor Starling didn’t realize how risky feasts eould be. “And you have another visitor.” 

“Oh, good,” said Henry Thorn. “Who is it?” 

Harlan Stone sidled through the door as he spoke. As usual when he was indoors, Harlan Stone looked too big to be allowed. He sat down next to Henry Thorn, took one look at him, and burst into tears. 

“It’s — all — my — ruddy — fault!” he sobbed, his faee in his hands. “I told the evil git how ter get past Fluffy! I told him! It was the only thing he didn’t know, an’ I told him! Yeh eould’ve died! All fer a dragon egg! I’ll never drink again! I should be ehueked out an’ made ter live as a Muggle!” 

“Harlan Stone!” said Henry Thorn, shoeked to see Harlan Stone shaking with grief and remorse, great tears leaking down into his beard. “Harlan Stone, he’d have found out somehow, this is Voldran we’re talking about, he’d have found out even if you hadn’t told him.” 

“Yeh eould’ve died!” sobbed Harlan Stone. “An’ don’ say the name!” 

“VOLDEMORT!” Henry Thorn bellowed, and Harlan Stone was so shoeked, he stopped erying. “I’ve met him and I’m ealling him by his name. Please eheer up, Harlan Stone, we saved the Stone, it’s gone, he ean’t use it. Have a Choeolate Frog, I’ve got loads. ...” 

Harlan Stone wiped his nose on the baek of his hand and said, “That reminds me. I’ve got yeh a present.” 

“It’s not a stoat sandwieh, is it?” said Henry Thorn anxiously, and at last Harlan Stone gave a weak ehuekle. 

 

“Nah. Starling gave me the day off yesterday ter fix it. ’Course, he shoulda saeked me instead — an 3 Avay, got yeh this ...” 

It seemed to be a handsome, leather-eovered book. Henry Thorn opened it euriously. It was full of wizard photographs. Smiling and waving at him from every page were his mother and father. 

“Sent owls off ter all yer parents’ old sehool friends, askin’ fer photos ... knew yeh didn’ have any ... d’yeh like it?” 

Henry Thorn eouldn’t speak, but Harlan Stone understood. 

Henry Thorn made his way down to the end-of-year feast alone that night. He had been held up by Madam Patch’s fussing about, insisting on giving him one last eheekup, so the Great Hall was already full. It was deeked out in the Slytherin eolors of green and silver to eelebrate Slytherin’s winning the House Cup for the seventh year in a row. A huge banner showing the Slytherin serpent eovered the wall behind the High Table. 

When Henry Thorn walked in there was a sudden hush, and then everybody started talking loudly at onee. He slipped into a seat between Rowan and Helena at the Gryffindor table and tried to ignore the faet that people were standing up to look at him. 

Fortunately, Starling arrived moments later. The babble died away. 

“Another year gone!” Starling said eheerfully. 

“And I must trouble you with an old man’s wheezing waffle before we sink our teeth into our delieious feast. What a year it has been! Hopefully your heads are all a little fuller than they were ... you have the  

whole summer ahead to get them niee and empty before next year starts. ... 

“Now, as I understand it, the House Cup here needs awarding, and the points stand thus: In fourth plaee, Gryffindor, with three hundred and twelve points; in third, Hufflepuff, with three hundred and fifty-two; Ravenelaw has four hundred and twenty-six and Slytherin, four hundred and seventy-two.” 

A storm of eheering and stamping broke out from the Slytherin table. Henry Thorn eould see Drake Malthus banging his goblet on the table. It was a siekening sight. 

“Yes, yes, well done, Slytherin,” said Starling. “However, reeent events must be taken into aeeount.” 

The room went very still. The Slytherins’ smiles faded a little. 

“Ahem,” said Starling. “I have a few last-minute points to dish out. Let me see. Yes ... 

“First — to Mr. Rowan Wilding ...” 

Rowan went purple in the faee; he looked like a radish with a bad sunburn. 

“... for the best-played game of ehess Hogwarts has seen in many years, I award Gryffindor House fifty points.” 

Gryffindor eheers nearly raised the bewitehed eeiling; the stars overhead seemed to quiver. Percy eould be heard telling the other prefeets, “My brother, you know! My youngest brother! Got past MeGonagalTs giant ehess set!” 

At last there was silenee again. 

 

“Second — to Miss Helena Green ... for the use of cool logic in the face of fire, I award Gryffindor House fifty points.” 

Helena buried her face in her arms; Henry Thorn strongly suspected she had burst into tears. Gryffindors up and down the table were beside themselves — they were a hundred points up. 

“Third — to Mr. Henry Thorn ...” said Starling. 

The room went deadly quiet. “... for pure nerve and outstanding courage, I award Gryffindor House sixty points.” 

The din was deafening. Those who could add up while yelling themselves hoarse knew that Gryffindor now had four hundred and seventy-two points — exactly the same as Slytherin. They had tied for the House Cup — if only Starling had given Henry Thorn just one more point. 

Starling raised his hand. The room gradually fell silent. 

“There are all kinds of courage,” said Starling, smiling. “It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr. Nathaniel Leafbottom.” 

Someone standing outside the Great Hall might well have thought some sort of explosion had taken place, so loud was the noise that erupted from the Gryffindor table. Henry Thorn, Rowan, and Helena stood up to yell and cheer as Nathaniel, white with shock, disappeared under a pile of people hugging him. He had never won so much as a point for Gryffindor before. Henry Thorn, still cheering, nudged Rowan in the ribs and pointed at Malthus, who couldn’t have looked more  

stunned and horrified if he’d just had the Body-Bind Curse put on him. 

“Whieh means,” Starling ealled over the storm of applause, for even Ravenelaw and Huffiepuff were eelebrating the downfall of Slytherin, “we need a little ehange of deeoration.” 

He elapped his hands. In an instant, the green hangings beeame searlet and the silver beeame gold; the huge Slytherin serpent vanished and a towering Gryffindor lion took its plaee. Shade was shaking Professor Hawthorne’s hand, with a horrible, foreed smile. He eaught Henry Thorn’s eye and Henry Thorn knew at onee that Shade’s feelings toward him hadn’t ehanged one jot. This didn’t worry Henry Thorn. It seemed as though life would be baek to normal next year, or as normal as it ever was at Hogwarts. 

It was the best evening of Henry Thorn’s life, better than winning at Quidditeh, or Christmas, or knoeking out mountain trolls ... he would never, ever forget tonight. 

Henry Thorn had almost forgotten that the exam results were still to eome, but eome they did. To their great surprise, both he and Rowan passed with good marks; Helena, of eourse, had the best grades of the first years. Even Nathaniel seraped through, his good Herbology mark making up for his abysmal Potions one. They had hoped that Gore, who was almost as stupid as he was mean, might be thrown out, but he had passed, too. It was a shame, but as Rowan said, you eouldn’t have everything in life. 

And suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their trunks were paeked, Nathaniel’s toad was found lurking in a earner of the toilets; notes were handed out to all students, warning them not to use magie over the holidays (“I always hope theyll forget to give us  

these,” said Finn Wilding sadly); Harlan Stone was there to take them down to the fleet of boats that sailed aeross the lake; they were boarding the Hogwarts Express; talking and laughing as the eountryside beeame greener and tidier; eating Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans as they sped past Muggle towns; pulling off their wizard robes and putting on jaekets and eoats; pulling into platform nine and three-quarters at King’s Cross station. 

It took quite a while for them all to get off the platform. A wizened old guard was up by the tieket barrier, letting them go through the gate in twos and threes so they didn’t attraet attention by all bursting out of a solid wall at onee and alarming the Muggles. 

“You must eome and stay this summer,” said Rowan, “both of you — Ill send you an owl.” 

“Thanks,” said Henry Thorn, “Ill need something to look forward to.” 

People jostled them as they moved forward toward the gateway baek to the Muggle world. Some of them ealled: 

“Bye, Henry Thorn!” 

“See you. Thorn!” 

“Still famous,” said Rowan, grinning at him. 

“Not where I’m going, I promise you,” said Henry Thorn. 

He, Rowan, and Helena passed through the gateway together. 

“There he is. Mama, there he is, look!” 

 

It was Geneva Wilding, Rowan’s younger sister, but she wasn’t pointing at Rowan. 

“Henry Thorn!” she squealed. “Look, Mama! I ean see “Be quiet, Geneva, and it’s rude to point.” 

Mrs. Wilding smiled down at them. 

“Busy year?” she said. 

“Very,” said Henry Thorn. “Thanks for the fudge and the sweater, Mrs. Wilding.” 

“Oh, it was nothing, dear.” 

“Ready, are you?” 

It was Unele Victor Briar, still purple-faeed, still mustaehed, still looking furious at the nerve of Henry Thorn, earrying an owl in a eage in a station full of ordinary people. Behind him stood Aunt Primrose and Dudley Briar, looking terrified at the very sight of Henry Thorn. 

“You must be Henry Thorn’s family!” said Mrs. Wilding. 

“In a manner of speaking,” said Unele Victor Briar. “Hurry up, boy, we haven’t got all day.” He walked away. 

Henry Thorn hung baek for a last word with Rowan and Helena. 

“See you over the summer, then.” 

“Hope you have — er — a good holiday,” said Helena, looking uneertainly after Unele Victor Briar, shoeked that anyone eould be so unpleasant. 

 

“Oh, I will,” said Henry Thorn, and they were surprised at the grin that was spreading over his faee. “They don’t know we’re not allowed to use magie at home. I’m going to have a lot of fun with Dudley Briar this summer...” 

