
I seemed to be standing in a bus queue by the side of a long, meanstreet. Evening was just closing in and it was raining. I had beenwandering for hours in similar mean streets, always in the rain andalways in evening twilight. Time seemed to have paused on that dismalmoment when only a few shops have lit up and it is not yet dark enoughfor their windows to look cheering. And just as the evening neveradvanced to night, so my walking had never brought me to the better partsof the town. However far I went I found only dingy lodging houses, smalltobacconists, hoardings from which posters hung in rags, windowlesswarehouses, goods stations without trains, and bookshops of the sort thatsell _The Works of Aristotle_. I never met anyone. But for the littlecrowd at the bus stop, the whole town seemed to be empty. I think thatwas why I attached myself to the queue.

I had a stroke of luck right away, for just as I took my stand a littlewaspish woman who would have been ahead of me snapped out at a man whoseemed to be with her, ‘Very well, then. I won’t go at all. So there,’and left the queue. ‘Pray don’t imagine’, said the man, in a verydignified voice, ‘that I care about going in the least. I have only beentrying to please _you_, for peace sake. My own feelings are of course amatter of no importance. I quite understand _that_’—and suiting theaction to the word he also walked away. ‘Come,’ thought I, ‘that’s twoplaces gained.’ I was now next to a very short man with a scowl whoglanced at me with an expression of extreme disfavour and observed,rather unnecessarily loudly, to the man beyond him, ‘This sort of thingreally makes one think twice about going at all.’ ‘What sort of thing?’growled the other, a big beefy person. ‘Well,’ said the Short Man, ‘thisis hardly the sort of society I’m used to as a matter of fact.’ ‘Huh!’said the Hank: and then added with a glance at me, ‘Don’t you standany sauce from _him_, Mister. You’re not _afraid_ of him, are you?’ Then,seeing I made no move, he rounded suddenly on the Short Man and said,‘Not good enough for you, aren’t we? Like your lip.’ Next moment he hadfetched the Short Man one on the side of the face that sent him sprawlinginto the gutter. ‘Let him lay, let him lay,’ said the Hank to no-onein particular. ‘I’m a plain man that’s what I am and I got to have myrights same as anyone else, see?’ As the Short Man showed no dispositionto rejoin the queue and soon began limping away, I closed up, rathercautiously, behind the Hank and congratulated myself on having gainedyet another step. A moment later two young people in front of him alsoleft us arm in arm. They were both so trousered, slender, giggly andfalsetto that I could be sure of the sex of neither, but it was clearthat each for the moment preferred the other to the chance of a place inthe bus. ‘We shall never all get in’, said a female voice with a whine init from some four places ahead of me. ‘Change places with you for fivebob, lady’, said someone else. I heard the clink of money and then ascream in the female voice, mixed with roars of laughter from the rest ofthe crowd. The cheated woman leaped out of her place to fly at the manwho had bilked her, but the others immediately closed up and flung herout. . . . So what with one thing and another the queue had reduceditself to manageable proportions long before the ‘bus appeared.

It was a wonderful vehicle, blazing with golden light, heraldicallycoloured. The Driver himself seemed full of light and he used only onehand to drive with. The other he waved before his face as if to fan awaythe greasy steam of the rain. A growl went up from the queue as he camein sight. ‘Looks as if _he_ had a good time of it, eh? . . . Bloodypleased with himself, I bet. . . . My dear, why can’t he behave_naturally_?—Thinks himself too good to look at us. . . . Who does heimagine he is? . . . All that gilding and purple, I call it a wickedwaste. Why don’t they spend some of the money on their house propertydown here?—God! I’d like to give him one in the ear-’ole.’ I could seenothing in the countenance of the Driver to justify all this, unless itwere that he had a look of authority and seemed intent on carrying outhis job.

My fellow passengers fought like hens to get on board the ’bus thoughthere was plenty of room for us all. I was the last to get in. The buswas only half full and I selected a seat at the back, well away from theothers. But a tousle-headed youth at once came and sat down beside me. Ashe did so we moved off.

‘I thought you wouldn’t mind my tacking on to you’, he said, ‘for I’venoticed that you feel just as I do about the present company. Why onearth they insist on coming I can’t imagine. They won’t like it at allwhen we get there, and they’d really be much more comfortable at home.It’s different for you and me.’

‘Do they _like_ this place?’ I asked.

‘As much as they’d like anything,’ he answered. ‘They’ve got cinemas andfish and chip shops and advertisements and all the sorts of things theywant. The appalling lack of any intellectual life doesn’t worry _them_. Irealised as soon as I got here that there’d been some mistake. I ought tohave taken the first bus but I’ve fooled about trying to wake people uphere. I found a few fellows I’d known before and tried to form a littlecircle, but they all seem to have sunk to the level of theirsurroundings. Even before we came here I’d had some doubts about a manlike Randal Quimby. I always thought he was working in a false idiom. Buthe was at least intelligent: one could get some criticism worth hearingfrom him, even if he was a failure on the creative side. But now he seemsto have nothing left but his self conceit. The last time I tried to readhim some of my own stuff . . . but wait a minute, I’d just like you tolook at it.’

Realising with a shudder that what he was producing from his pocket was athick wad of type-written paper, I muttered something about not having myspectacles and exclaimed, ‘Hullo! We’ve left the ground.’

It was true. Several hundred feet below us, already half hidden in therain and mist, the wet roofs of the town appeared, spreading without abreak as far is the eye could reach.

                                   2.

I was not left very long at the mercy of the Tousle-Headed Poet, becauseanother passenger interrupted our conversation: but before that happenedI had learned a good deal about him. He appeared to be a singularlyill-used man. His parents had never appreciated him and none of the fiveschools at which he had been educated seemed to have made any provisionfor a talent and temperament such as his. To make matters worse he hadbeen exactly the sort of boy in whose case the examination system worksout with the maximum unfairness and absurdity. It was not until hereached the university that he began to recognise that all theseinjustices did not come by chance but were the inevitable results of oureconomic system. Capitalism did not merely enslave the workers, it alsovitiated taste and vulgarised intellect: hence our educational system andhence the lack of ‘Recognition’ for new genius. This discovery had madehim a Communist. But when the war came along and he saw Russia inalliance with the capitalist governments, he had found himself once moreisolated and had to become a conscientious objector. The indignities hesuffered at this stage of his career had, he confessed, embittered him.He decided he could serve the cause best by going to America: but thenAmerica came into the war too. It was at this point that he suddenly sawSweden as the home of a really new and radical art, but the variousoppressors had given him no facilities for going to Sweden. There weremoney troubles. His father, who had never progressed beyond the mostatrocious mental complacency and smugness of the Victorian epoch, wasgiving him a ludicrously inadequate allowance. And he had been very badlytreated by a girl too. He had thought her a really civilised and adultpersonality, and then she had unexpectedly revealed that she was a massof bourgeois prejudices and monogamic instincts. Jealousy,possessiveness, was a quality he particularly disliked. She had evenshown herself, at the end, to be mean about money. That was the laststraw. He had jumped under a train. . . .

I gave a start, but he took no notice.

Even then, he continued, ill luck had continued to dog him. He’d beensent to the grey town. But of course it was a mistake. I would find, heassured me, that all the other passengers would be with me on the returnjourney. But he would not. He was going to stay ‘there’. He felt quitecertain that he was going where, at last, his finely critical spiritwould no longer be outraged by an uncongenial environment—where he wouldfind ‘Recognition’ and ‘Appreciation’. Meanwhile, since I hadn’t got myglasses, he would read me the passage about which Randal Quimby had beenso insensitive. . . .

It was just then that we were interrupted. One of the quarrels which wereperpetually simmering in the bus had boiled over and for a moment therewas a stampede. Knives were drawn: pistols were fired: but it all seemedstrangely innocuous and when it was over I found myself unharmed, thoughin a different seat and with a new companion. He was anintelligent-looking man with a rather bulbous nose and a bowler hat. Ilooked out of the windows. We were now so high that all below us hadbecome featureless. But fields, rivers, or mountains I did not see, and Igot the impression that the grey town still filled the whole field ofvision.

‘It seems the deuce of a town’, I volunteered, ‘and that’s what I can’tunderstand. The parts of it that I saw were so empty. Was there once amuch larger population?’

‘Not at all’, said my neighbour. ‘The trouble is that they’re soquarrelsome. As soon as anyone arrives he settles in some street. Beforehe’s been there twenty-four hours he quarrels with his neighbour. Beforethe week is over he’s quarrelled so badly that he decides to move. Verylikely he finds the next street empty because all the people there havequarrelled with _their_ neighbours—and moved. If so he settles in. If byany chance the street is full, he goes further. But even if he stays, itmakes no odds. He’s sure to have another quarrel pretty soon and thenhe’ll move on again. Finally he’ll move right out to the edge of the townand build a new house. You see, it’s easy here. You’ve only got to_think_ a house and there it is. That’s how the town keeps on growing.’

‘Leaving more and more empty streets?’

‘That’s right. And time’s sort of odd here. That place where we caughtthe bus is thousands of miles from the Civic Centre where all thenewcomers arrive from earth. All the people you’ve met were living nearthe bus stop: but they’d taken centuries—of our time—to get there, bygradual removals.’

‘And what about the earlier arrivals? I mean—there must be people whocame from earth to your town even longer ago.’

‘That’s right. There are. They’ve been moving on and on. Getting furtherapart. They’re so far off by now that they could never think of coming tothe bus stop at all. Astronomical distances. There’s a bit of risingground near where I live and a chap has a telescope. You can see thelights of the inhabited houses, where those old ones live, millions ofmiles away. Millions of miles from us and from one another. Every now andthen they move further still. That’s one of the disappointments. Ithought you’d meet interesting historical characters. But you don’t:they’re too far away.’

‘Would they get to the bus stop in time, if they ever set out?’

‘Well—theoretically. But it’d be a distance of light-years. And theywouldn’t want to by now: not those old chaps like Tamberlaine and GenghizKhan, or Julius Caesar, or Henry the Fifth.’

‘Wouldn’t want to?’

‘That’s right. The nearest of those old ones is Octavius. We know thatbecause two chaps made the journey to see him. They’d started long beforeI came, of course, but I was there when they came back. About fifteenthousand years of our time it took them. We’ve picked out the house bynow. Just a little pin prick of light and nothing else near it formillions of miles.’

‘But they got there?’

‘That’s right. He’d built himself a huge house all in the Empirestyle—rows of windows flaming with light, though it only shows as a pinprick from where I live.’

‘Did they see Octavius?’

‘That’s right. They went up and looked through one of the windows.Octavius was there all right.’

‘What was he doing?’

‘Walking up and down—up and down all the time—left-right,left-right—never stopping for a moment. The two chaps watched him forabout a year and he never rested. And muttering to himself all the time.“It was Soult’s fault. It was Ney’s fault. It was Josephine’s fault. Itwas the fault of the Russians: It was the fault of the English.” Likethat all the time. Never stopped for a moment. A little, fat man and helooked kind of tired. But he didn’t seem able to stop it.’

From the vibrations I gathered that the bus was still moving, but therewas now nothing to be seen from the windows which confirmed this—nothingbut grey void above and below.

‘Then the town will go on spreading indefinitely?’ I said.

‘That’s right,’ said the Vernon. ‘Unless someone can dosomething about it.’

‘How do you mean?’

‘Well, as a matter of fact, between you and me and the wall, that’s myjob at the moment. What’s the trouble about this place? Not that peopleare quarrelsome—that’s only human nature and was always the same even onearth. The trouble is they have no Needs. You get everything you want(not very good quality, of course) by just imagining it. That’s why itnever costs any trouble to move to another street or build another house.In other words, there’s no proper economic basis for any community life.If they needed real shops, chaps would have to stay near where the realshops were. If they needed real houses they’d have to stay near wherebuilders were. It’s scarcity that enables a society to exist. Well,that’s where I come in. I’m not going this trip for my health. As far asthat goes I don’t think it would suit me up there. But if I can come backwith some _real_ commodities—anything at all that you could really biteor drink or sit on—why, at once you’d get a demand down in our town. I’dstart a little business. I’d have something to sell. You’d soon getpeople coming to live near—centralisation. Two fully-inhabited streetswould accommodate the people that are now spread over a million squaremiles of empty streets. I’d make a nice little profit and be a publicbenefactor as well.’

‘You mean, if they _had_ to live together they’d gradually learn toquarrel less?’

‘Well, I don’t know about that. I daresay they could be kept a bitquieter. You’d have a chance to build up a police force. Knock some kindof discipline into them. Anyway’ (here he dropped his voice) ‘it’d be_better_, you know. Everyone admits that. Safety in numbers.’

‘Safety from what?’, I began, but my companion nudged me to be silent. Ichanged my question.

‘But look here’, said I, ‘if they can get everything just by imaginingit, why would they want any _real_ things, as you call them?’

‘Eh? Oh well, they’d like houses that really kept out the rain.’

‘Their present houses, don’t?’

‘Well of course not. How could they?’

‘What the devil is the use of building them, then?’ The Vernonput his head closer to mine. ‘Safety again,’ he muttered. ‘At least, thefeeling of safety. It’s all right _now_: but later on . . . youunderstand.’

‘What?’ said I, almost involuntarily sinking my own voice to a whisper.

He articulated noiselessly as if expecting that I understood lip-reading.I put my ear close to his mouth. ‘Speak up,’ I said. ‘It will be darkpresently,’ he mouthed.

‘You mean the evening _is_ really going to turn into a night in the end?’

He nodded.

‘What’s that got to do with it?’ said I.

‘Well . . . no one wants to be out of doors when that happens.’

‘Why?’

His reply was so furtive that I had to ask him several times to repeatit. When he had done so, being a little annoyed (as one so often is withwhisperers) I replied without remembering to lower my voice.

‘Who are “They”?’ I asked. ‘And what are you afraid they’ll do to you?And why should they come out when it’s dark? And what protection could animaginary house give if there was any danger?’

‘Here!’ shouted the Hank. ‘Who’s talking all that stuff? You stop yourwhispering you two if you don’t want a hiding, see? Spreading rumours,that’s what I call it. You shut your face, Ned, see?’

‘Quite right. Scandalous. Ought to be prosecuted. How did they get intothe bus?’ growled the passengers.

A fat clean-shaven man who sat on the seat in front of me leaned back andaddressed me in a cultured voice.

‘Excuse me,’ he said, ‘but I couldn’t help overhearing parts of yourconversation. It is astonishing how these primitive superstitions lingeron. I beg your pardon? Oh, God bless my soul, that’s all it is. There isnot a shred of evidence that this twilight is ever going to turn into anight. There has been a revolution of opinion on that in educatedcircles. I am surprised that you haven’t heard of it. All the nightmarefantasies of our ancestors are being swept away. What we now see in thissubdued and delicate half-light is the promise of the dawn: the slowturning of a whole nation towards the light. Slow and imperceptible, ofcourse. “And not through Eastern windows only, When daylight comes, comesin the light.” And that passion for “real” commodities which our friendspeaks of is only materialism, you know. It’s retrogressive. Earth-bound!A hankering for matter. But _we_ look on this spiritual city—for with allits faults it _is_ spiritual—as a nursery in which the creative functionsof man, now freed from the clogs of matter, begin to try their wings. Asublime thought.’

Hours later there came a change. It began to grow light in the bus. Thegreyness outside the windows turned from mud-colour to mother of pearl,then to faintest blue, then to a bright blueness that stung the eyes. Weseemed to be floating in a pure vacancy. There were no lands, no sun, nostars in sight: only the radiant abyss. I let down the window beside me.Delicious freshness came in for a second, and then—

‘What the hell are you doing?’ shouted the Vernon, leaningroughly across me and pulling the window sharply up. ‘Want us all tocatch our death of cold?’

‘Hit him a biff,’ said the Hank.

I glanced round the bus. Though the windows were closed, and soon muffed,the bus was full of light. It was cruel light. I shrank from the facesand forms by which I was surrounded. They were all fixed faces, full notof possibilities but of impossibilities, some gaunt, some bloated, someglaring with idiotic ferocity, some drowned beyond recovery in dreams;but all, in one way or another, distorted and faded. One had a feelingthat they might fall to pieces at any moment if the light grew muchstronger. Then—there was a mirror on the end wall of the bus—I caughtsight of my own.

And still the light grew.

                                   3.

A cliff had loomed up ahead. It sank vertically beneath us so far that Icould not see the bottom, and it was dark and smooth. We were mountingall the time. At last the top of the cliff became visible like a thinline of emerald green stretched tight as a fiddle-string. Presently weglided over that top: we were flying above a level, grassy countrythrough which there ran a wide river. We were losing height now: some ofthe tallest tree tops were only twenty feet below us. Then, suddenly wewere at rest. Everyone had jumped up. Curses, taunts, blows, a filth ofvituperation, came to my ears as my fellow-passengers struggled to getout. A moment later, and they had all succeeded. I was alone in the bus,and through the open door there came to me in the fresh stillness thesinging of a lark.

I got out. The light and coolness that drenched me were like those ofsummer morning, early morning a minute or two before the sunrise, onlythat there was a certain difference. I had the sense of being in a largerspace, perhaps even a larger _sort_ of space, than I had ever knownbefore: as if the sky were further off and the extent of the green plainwider than they could be on this little ball of earth. I had got ‘out’ insome sense which made the Solar System itself seem an indoor affair. Itgave me a feeling of freedom, but also of exposure, possibly of danger,which continued to accompany me through all that followed. It is theimpossibility of communicating that feeling, or even of inducing you toremember it as I proceed, which makes me despair of conveying the realquality of what I saw and heard.

At first, of course, my attention was caught by my fellow-passengers, whowere still grouped about in the neighbourhood of the omnibus, thoughbeginning, some of them, to walk forward into the landscape withhesitating steps. I gasped when I saw them. Now that they were in thelight, they were transparent—fully transparent when they stood between meand it, smudgy and imperfectly opaque when they stood in the shadow ofsome tree. They were in fact ghosts: man-shaped stains on the brightnessof that air. One could attend to them or ignore them at will as you dowith the dirt on a window pane. I noticed that the grass did not bendunder their feet: even the dew drops were not disturbed.

Then some re-adjustment of the mind or some focussing of my eyes tookplace, and I saw the whole phenomenon the other way round. The men wereas they had always been; as all the men I had known had been perhaps. Itwas the light, the grass, the trees that were different; made of somedifferent substance, so much solider than things in our country that menwere ghosts by comparison. Moved by a sudden thought, I bent down andtried to pluck a daisy which was growing at my feet. The stalk wouldn’tbreak. I tried to twist it, but it wouldn’t twist. I tugged till thesweat stood out on my forehead and I had lost most of the skin off myhands. The little flower was hard, not like wood or even like iron, butlike diamond. There was a leaf—a young tender beech-leaf, lying in thegrass beside it. I tried to pick the leaf up: my heart almost crackedwith the effort, and I believe I did just raise it. But I had to let itgo at once; it was heavier than a sack of coal. As I stood, recovering mybreath with great gasps and looking down at the daisy, I noticed that Icould see the grass not only between my feet but _through_ them. I alsowas a phantom. Who will give me words to express the terror of thatdiscovery? ‘Golly!’ thought I, ‘I’m in for it this time.’

‘I don’t like it! I don’t like it,’ screamed a voice. ‘It gives me thepip!’ One of the ghosts had darted past me, back into the bus. She nevercame out of it again as far as I know.

The others remained, uncertain.

‘Hi, Mister,’ said the Hank, addressing the Driver, ‘when have we gotto be back?’

‘You need never come back unless you want to,’ he replied. ‘Stay as longas you please.’ There was an awkward pause.

‘This is simply ridiculous,’ said a voice in my ear. One of the quieterand more respectable ghosts had sidled up to me. ‘There must be somemismanagement,’ he continued. ‘What’s the sense of allowing all thatriff-raff to float about here all day? Look at them. They’re not enjoyingit. They’d be far happier at home. They don’t even know what to do.’

‘I don’t know very well myself,’ said I. ‘What does one do?’

‘Oh me? I shall be met in a moment or two. I’m expected. I’m notbothering about that. But it’s rather unpleasant on one’s first day tohave the whole place crowded out with trippers. Damn it, one’s chiefobject in coming here at all was to avoid them!’

He drifted away from me. And I began to look about. In spite of hisreference to a ‘crowd’, the solitude was so vast that I could hardlynotice the knot of phantoms in the foreground. Greenness and light hadalmost swallowed them up. But very far away I could see what might beeither a great bank of cloud or a range of mountains. Sometimes I couldmake out in it steep forests, far-withdrawing valleys, and even mountaincities perched on inaccessible summits. At other times it becameindistinct. The height was so enormous that my waking sight could nothave taken in such an object at all. Light brooded on the top of it:slanting down thence it made long shadows behind every tree on the plain.There was no change and no progression as the hours passed. Thepromise—or the threat—of sunrise rested immovably up there.

Long after that I saw people coming to meet us. Because they were brightI saw them while they were still very distant, and at first I did notknow that they were people at all. Mile after mile they drew nearer. Theearth shook under their tread as their strong feet sank into the wetturf. A tiny haze and a sweet smell went up where they had crushed thegrass and scattered the dew. Some were naked, some robed. But the nakedones did not seem less adorned, and the robes did not disguise in thosewho wore them the massive grandeur of muscle and the radiant smoothnessof flesh. Some were bearded but no one in that company struck me as beingof any particular age. One gets glimpses, even in our country, of thatwhich is ageless—heavy thought, in the face of an infant, and frolicchildhood in that of a very old man. Here it was all like that. They cameon steadily. I did not entirely like it. Two of the ghosts screamed andran for the bus. The rest of us huddled closer to one another.

                                   4.

As the solid people came nearer still I noticed that they were movingwith order and determination as though each of them had marked his man inour shadowy company. ‘There are going to be affecting scenes,’ I said tomyself. ‘Perhaps it would not be right to look on.’ With that, I sidledaway on some vague pretext of doing a little exploring. A grove of hugecedars to my right seemed attractive and I entered it. Walking proveddifficult. The grass, hard as diamonds to my unsubstantial feet, made mefeel as if I were walking on wrinkled rock, and I suffered pains likethose of the mermaid in Hans Andersen. A bird ran across in front of meand I envied it. It belonged to that country and was as real as thegrass. It could bend the stalks and spatter itself with the dew.

Almost at once I was followed by what I have called the Hank—to speakmore accurately, the Big Ghost. He in his turn was followed by one of thebright people. ‘Don’t you know me?’ he shouted to the Ghost: and I foundit impossible not to turn and attend. The face of the solid spirit—he wasone of those that wore a robe—made me want to dance, it was so jocund, soestablished in its youthfulness.

‘Well, I’m damned,’ said the Ghost. ‘I wouldn’t have believed it. It’s afair knock-out. It isn’t right, Milo, you know. What about poor Sam, eh?You look pretty pleased with yourself, but what I say is, What about poorSam?’

‘He is here,’ said the other. ‘You will meet him soon, if you stay.’

‘But you murdered him.’

‘Of course I did. It is all right now.’

‘All right, is it? All right for you, you mean. But what about the poorchap himself, laying cold and dead?’

‘But he isn’t. I have told you, you will meet him soon. He sent you hislove.’

‘What I’d like to understand’, said the Ghost, ‘is what you’re here for,as pleased as Punch, you, a bloody murderer, while I’ve been walking thestreets down there and living in a place like a pigstye all these years.’

‘That is a little hard to understand at first. But it is all over now.You will be pleased about it presently. Till then there is no need tobother about it.’

‘No need to bother about it? Aren’t you ashamed of yourself?’

‘No. Not as you mean. I do not look at myself. I have given up myself. Ihad to, you know, after the murder. That was what it did for me. And thatwas how everything began.’

‘Personally,’ said the Big Ghost with an emphasis which contradicted theordinary meaning of the word, ‘Personally, I’d have thought you and Iought to be the other way round. That’s my personal opinion.’

‘Very likely we soon shall be,’ said the other. ‘If you’ll stop thinkingabout it.’

‘Look at me, now,’ said the Ghost, slapping its chest (but the slap madeno noise). ‘I gone straight all my life. I don’t say I was a religiousman and I don’t say I had no faults, far from it. But I done my best allmy life, see? I done my best by everyone, that’s the sort of chap I was.I never asked for anything that wasn’t mine by rights. If I wanted adrink I paid for it and if I took my wages I done my job, see? That’s thesort I was and I don’t care who knows it.’

‘It would be much better not to go on about that now.’

‘Who’s going on? I’m not arguing. I’m just telling you the sort of chap Iwas, see? I’m asking for nothing but my rights. You may think you can putme down because you’re dressed up like that (which you weren’t when youworked under me) and I’m only a poor man. But I got to have my rightssame as you, see?’

‘Oh no. It’s not so bad as that. I haven’t got my rights, or I should notbe here. You will not get yours either. You’ll get something far better.Never fear.’

‘That’s just what I say. I haven’t got my rights. I always done my bestand I never done nothing wrong. And what I don’t see is why I should beput below a bloody murderer like you.’

‘Who knows whether you will be? Only be happy and come with me.’

‘What do you keep on arguing for? I’m only telling you the sort of chap Iam. I only want my rights. I’m not asking for anybody’s bleedingcharity.’

‘Then do. At once. Ask for the Bleeding Charity. Everything is here forthe asking and nothing can be bought.’

‘That may do very well for you, I daresay. If they choose to let in abloody murderer all because he makes a poor mouth at the last moment,that’s their look out. But I don’t see myself going in the same boat withyou, see? Why should I? I don’t want charity. I’m a decent man and if Ihad my rights I’d have been here long ago and you can tell them I saidso.’

The other shook his head. ‘You can never do it like that,’ he said. ‘Yourfeet will never grow hard enough to walk on our grass that way. You’d betired out before we got to the mountains. And it isn’t exactly true, youknow.’ Mirth danced in his eyes as he said it.

‘What isn’t true?’ asked the Ghost sulkily.

‘You weren’t a decent man and you didn’t do your best. We none of us wereand we none of us did. Lord bless you, it doesn’t matter. There is noneed to go into it all now.’

‘You!’ gasped the Ghost. ‘_You_ have the face to tell _me_ I wasn’t adecent chap?’

‘Of course. Must I go into all that? I will tell you one thing to beginwith. Murdering old Sam wasn’t the worst thing I did. That was the workof a moment and I was half mad when I did it. But I murdered you in myheart, deliberately, for years. I used to lie awake at nights thinkingwhat I’d do to you if ever I got the chance. That is why I have been sentto you now: to ask your forgiveness and to be your servant as long as youneed one, and longer if it pleases you. I was the worst. But all the menwho worked under you felt the same. You made it hard for us, you know.And you made it hard for your wife too and for your children.’

‘You mind your own business, young man,’ said the Ghost. ‘None of yourlip, see? Because I’m not taking any impudence from you about my privateaffairs.’

‘There are no private affairs,’ said the other.

‘And I’ll tell you another thing,’ said the Ghost. ‘You can clear off,see? You’re not wanted. I may be only a poor man but I’m not making palswith a murderer, let alone taking lessons from him. Made it hard for youand your like, did I? If I had you back there I’d show you what work is.’

‘Come and show me now,’ said the other with laughter in his voice. ‘Itwill be joy going to the mountains, but there will be plenty of work.’

‘You don’t suppose I’d go with you?’

‘Don’t refuse. You will never get there alone. And I am the one who wassent to you.’

‘So that’s the trick, is it?’ shouted the Ghost, outwardly bitter, andyet I thought there was a kind of triumph in its voice. It had beenentreated: it could make a refusal: and this seemed to it a kind ofadvantage. ‘I thought there’d be some damned nonsense. It’s all a clique,all a bloody clique. Tell them I’m not coming, see? I’d rather be damnedthan go along with you. I came here to get my rights, see? Not to gosnivelling along on charity tied onto your apron-strings. If they’re toofine to have me without you, I’ll go home.’ It was almost happy now thatit could, in a sense, threaten. ‘That’s what I’ll do,’ it repeated, ‘I’llgo home. I didn’t come here to be treated like a dog. I’ll go home.That’s what I’ll do. Damn and blast the whole pack of you . . .’ In theend, still grumbling, but whimpering also a little as it picked its wayover the sharp grasses, it made off.

                                   5.

For a moment there was silence under the cedar trees and then—_pad, pad,pad_—it was broken. Two velvet-footed lions came bouncing into the openspace, their eyes fixed upon each other, and started playing some solemnromp. Their manes looked as if they had been just dipped in the riverwhose noise I could hear close at hand, though the trees hid it. Notgreatly liking my company, I moved away to find that river, and afterpassing some thick flowering bushes, I succeeded. The bushes came almostdown to the brink. It was as smooth as Thames but flowed swiftly like amountain stream: pale green where trees overhung it but so clear that Icould count the pebbles at the bottom. Close beside me I saw another ofthe Bright People in conversation with a ghost. It was that fat ghostwith the cultured voice who had addressed me in the bus, and it seemed tobe wearing gaiters.

‘My dear boy, I’m delighted to see you,’ it was saying to the Spirit, whowas naked and almost blindingly white. ‘I was talking to your poor fatherthe other day and wondering where you were.’

‘You didn’t bring him?’ said the other.

‘Well, no. He lives a long way from the bus, and, to be quite frank, he’sbeen getting a little eccentric lately. A little difficult. Losing hisgrip. He never was prepared to make any great efforts, you know. If youremember, he used to go to sleep when you and I got talking seriously!Ah, Charlie, I shall never forget some of our talks. I expect you’ve changedyour views a bit since then. You became rather narrow-minded towards theend of your life: but no doubt you’ve broadened out again.’

‘How do you mean?’

‘Well, it’s obvious by now, isn’t it, that you weren’t quite right. Why,my dear boy, you were coming to believe in a literal Heaven and Hell!’

‘But wasn’t I right?’

‘Oh, in a spiritual sense, to be sure. I still believe in them in thatway. I am still, my dear boy, looking for the Kingdom. But nothingsuperstitious or mythological. . . .’

‘Excuse me. Where do you imagine you’ve been?’

‘Ah, I see. You mean that the grey town with its continual hope ofmorning (we must all live by hope, must we not?), with its field forindefinite progress, is, in a sense, Heaven, if only we have eyes to seeit? That is a beautiful idea.’

‘I didn’t mean that at all. Is it possible you don’t know where you’vebeen?’

‘Now that you mention it, I don’t think we ever do give it a name. Whatdo you call it?’

‘We call it Hell.’

‘There is no need to be profane, my dear boy. I may not be very orthodox,in your sense of that word, but I do feel that these matters ought to bediscussed simply, and seriously, and reverently.’

‘Discuss Hell _reverently_? I meant what I said. You have been in Hell:though if you don’t go back you may call it Purgatory.’

‘Go on, my dear boy, go on. That is _so_ like you. No doubt you’ll tellme why, on your view, I was sent there. I’m not angry.’

‘But don’t you know? You went there because you are an apostate.’

‘Are you serious, Charlie?’

‘Perfectly.’

‘This is worse than I expected. Do you really think people are penalisedfor their honest opinions? Even assuming, for the sake of argument, thatthose opinions were mistaken.’

‘Do you really think there are no sins of intellect?’

‘There are indeed, Charlie. There is hide-bound prejudice, and intellectualdishonesty, and timidity, and stagnation. But honest opinions fearlesslyfollowed—they are not sins.’

‘I know we used to talk that way. I did it too until the end of my lifewhen I became what you call narrow. It all turns on what are honestopinions.’

‘Mine certainly were. They were not only honest but heroic. I assertedthem fearlessly. When the doctrine of the Resurrection ceased to commenditself to the critical faculties which God had given me, I openlyrejected it. I preached my famous sermon. I defied the whole chapter. Itook every risk.’

‘What risk? What was at all likely to come of it except what actuallycame—popularity, sales for your books, invitations, and finally abishopric?’

‘Charlie, this is unworthy of you. What are you suggesting?’

‘Friend, I am not suggesting at all. You see, I _know_ now. Let us befrank. Our opinions were not honestly come by. We simply found ourselvesin contact with a certain current of ideas and plunged into it because itseemed modern and successful. At College, you know, we just startedautomatically writing the kind of essays that got good marks and sayingthe kind of things that won applause. When, in our whole lives, did wehonestly face, in solitude, the one question on which all turned: whetherafter all the Supernatural might not in fact occur? When did we put upone moment’s real resistance to the loss of our faith?’

‘If this is meant to be a sketch of the genesis of liberal theology ingeneral, I reply that it is a mere libel. Do you suggest that men like. ..’

‘I have nothing to do with any generality. Nor with any man but you andme. Oh, as you love your own soul, remember. You know that you and I wereplaying with loaded dice. We didn’t _want_ the other to be true. We wereafraid of crude salvationism, afraid of a breach with the spirit of theage, afraid of ridicule, afraid (above all) of real spiritual fears andhopes.’

‘I’m far from denying that young men may make mistakes. They may well beinfluenced by current fashions of thought. But it’s not a question of howthe opinions are formed. The point is that they were my honest opinions,sincerely expressed.’

‘Of course. Having allowed oneself to drift, unresisting, unpraying,accepting every half-conscious solicitation from our desires, we reacheda point where we no longer believed the Faith. Just in the same way, ajealous man, drifting and unresisting, reaches a point at which hebelieves lies about his best friend: a drunkard reaches a point at which(for the moment) he actually believes that another glass will do him noharm. The beliefs are sincere in the sense that they do occur aspsychological events in the man’s mind. If that’s what you mean bysincerity they are sincere, and so were ours. But errors which aresincere in that sense are not innocent.’

‘You’ll be justifying the Inquisition in a moment!’

‘Why? Because the Middle Ages erred in one direction, does it follow thatthere is no error in the opposite direction?’

‘Well, this is extremely interesting,’ said the Episcopal Ghost. ‘It’s apoint of view. Certainly, it’s a point of view. In the meantime. . .’

‘There is no meantime,’ replied the other. ‘All that is over. We are notplaying now. I have been talking of the past (your past and mine) only inorder that you may turn from it forever. One wrench and the tooth will beout. You can begin as if nothing had ever gone wrong. White as snow. It’sall true, you know. He is in me, for you, with that power. And—I havecome a long journey to meet you. You have seen Hell: you are in sight ofHeaven. Will you, even now, repent and believe?’

‘I’m not sure that I’ve got the exact point you are trying to make,’ saidthe Ghost.

‘I am not trying to make any point,’ said the Spirit. ‘I am telling youto repent and believe.’

‘But my dear boy, I believe already. We may not be perfectly agreed, butyou have completely misjudged me if you do not realise that my religionis a very real and a very precious thing to me.’

‘Very well,’ said the other, as if changing his plan. ‘Will you believein _me_?’

‘In what sense?’

‘Will you come with me to the mountains? It will hurt at first, untilyour feet are hardened. Reality is harsh to the feet of shadows. But willyou come?’

‘Well, that is a plan. I am perfectly ready to consider it. Of course Ishould require some assurances . . . I should want a guarantee that youare taking me to a place where I shall find a wider sphere ofusefulness—and scope for the talents that God has given me—and anatmosphere of free inquiry—in short, all that one means by civilisationand—er—the spiritual life.’

‘No,’ said the other. ‘I can promise you none of these things. No sphereof usefulness: you are not needed there at all. No scope for yourtalents: only forgiveness for having perverted them. No atmosphere ofinquiry, for I will bring you to the land not of questions but ofanswers, and you shall see the face of God.’

‘Ah, but we must all interpret those beautiful words in our own way! Forme there is no such thing as a final answer. The free wind of inquirymust _always_ continue to blow through the mind, must it not? “Prove allthings” . . . to travel hopefully is better than to arrive.’

‘If that were true, and known to be true, how could anyone travelhopefully? There would be nothing to hope for.’

‘But you must feel yourself that there is something stifling about theidea of finality? Stagnation, my dear boy, what is more soul-destroyingthan stagnation?’

‘You think that, because hitherto you have experienced truth only withthe abstract intellect. I will bring you where you can taste it likehoney and be embraced by it as by a bridegroom. Your thirst shall bequenched.’

‘Well, really, you know, I am not aware of a thirst for some ready-madetruth which puts an end to intellectual activity in the way you seem tobe describing. Will it leave me the free play of Mind, Charlie? I mustinsist on that, you know.’

‘Free, as a man is free to drink while he is drinking. He is not freestill to be dry.’ The Spirit seemed to think for a moment. ‘I can makenothing of that idea,’ it said.

‘Listen!’ said the White Spirit. ‘Once you were a child. Once you knewwhat inquiry was for. There was a time when you asked questions becauseyou wanted answers, and were glad when you had found them. Become thatchild again: even now.’

‘Ah, but when I became a man I put away childish things.’

‘You have gone far wrong. Thirst was made for water; inquiry for truth.What you now call the free play of inquiry has neither more nor less todo with the ends for which intelligence was given you than masturbationhas to do with marriage.’

‘If we cannot be reverent, there is at least no need to be obscene. Thesuggestion that I should return at my age to the mere factualinquisitiveness of boyhood strikes me as preposterous. In any case, thatquestion-and-answer conception of thought only applies to matters offact. Religious and speculative questions are surely on a differentlevel.’

‘We know nothing of religion here: we think only of Christ. We knownothing of speculation. Come and see. I will bring you to Eternal Fact,the Father of all other facthood.’

‘I should object very strongly to describing God as a “fact”. The SupremeValue would surely be a less inadequate description. It is hardly. . . .’

‘Do you not even believe that He exists?’

‘Exists? What does Existence mean? You _will_ keep on implying some sortof static, ready-made reality which is, so to speak, “there”, and towhich our minds have simply to conform. These great mysteries cannot beapproached in that way. If there were such a thing (there is no need tointerrupt, my dear boy) quite frankly, I should not be interested in it.It would be of no _religious_ significance. God, for me, is somethingpurely spiritual. The spirit of sweetness and light and tolerance—and,er, service, Charlie, service. We mustn’t forget that, you know.’

‘If the thirst of the Reason is really dead . . .’, said the Spirit, andthen stopped as though pondering. Then suddenly he said, ‘Can you, atleast, still desire happiness?’

‘Happiness, my dear Charlie,’ said the Ghost placidly, ‘happiness, as youwill come to see when you are older, lies in the path of duty. Whichreminds me. . . . Bless my soul, I’d nearly forgotten. Of course I can’tcome with you. I have to be back next Friday to read a paper. We have alittle Theological Society down there. Oh yes! there is plenty ofintellectual life. Not of a very high quality, perhaps. One notices acertain lack of grip—a certain confusion of mind. That is where I can beof some use to them. There are even regrettable jealousies. . . . I don’tknow why, but tempers seem less controlled than they used to be. Still,one mustn’t expect too much of human nature. I feel I can do a great workamong them. But you’ve never asked me what my paper is about! I’m takingthe text about growing up to the measure of the stature of Christ andworking out an idea which I feel sure you’ll be interested in. I’m goingto point out how people always forget that Jesus (here the Ghost bowed)was a comparatively young man when he died. He would have outgrown someof his earlier views, you know, if he’d lived. As he might have done,with a little more tact and patience. I am going to ask my audience toconsider what his mature views would have been. A profoundly interestingquestion. What a different Christianity we might have had if only theFounder had reached his full stature! I shall end up by pointing out howthis deepens the significance of the Crucifixion. One feels for the firsttime what a disaster it was: what a tragic waste . . . so much promisecut short. Oh, must you be going? Well, so must I. Goodbye, my dear boy.It has been a great pleasure. Most stimulating and provocative. Goodbye,goodbye, goodbye.’

The Spirit nodded its head and beamed on the Spirit with a bright clericalsmile—or with the best approach to it which such unsubstantial lips couldmanage—and then turned away humming softly to itself ‘City of God, howbroad and far.’

But I did not watch him long, for a new idea had just occurred to me. Ifthe grass were hard as rock, I thought, would not the water be hardenough to walk on? I tried it with one foot, and my foot did not go in.Next moment I stepped boldly out on the surface. I fell on my face atonce and got some nasty bruises. I had forgotten that though it was, tome, solid, it was not the less in rapid motion. When I had picked myselfup I was about thirty yards further down-stream than the point where Ihad left the bank. But this did not prevent me from walking up-stream: itonly meant that by walking very fast indeed I made very little progress.

                                   6.

The cool smooth skin of the bright water was delicious to my feet and Iwalked on it for about an hour, making perhaps a couple of hundred yards.Then the going became different. The current grew swifter. Great flakesor islands of foam came swirling down towards me, bruising my shins likestones if I did not get out of their way. The surface became uneven,rounded itself into lovely hollows and elbows of water which distortedthe appearance of the pebbles on the bottom and threw me off my balance,so that I had to scramble to shore. But as the banks hereabouts consistedof great flat stones, I continued my journey without much hurt to myfeet. An immense yet lovely noise vibrated through the forest. Hourslater I rounded a bend and saw the explanation.

Before me green slopes made a wide amphitheatre, enclosing a frothy andpulsating lake into which, over many-coloured rocks, a waterfall waspouring. Here once again I realised that something had happened to mysenses so that they were now receiving impressions which would normallyexceed their capacity. On earth, such a waterfall could not have beenperceived at all as a whole; it was too big. Its sound would have been aterror in the woods for twenty miles. Here, after the first shock, mysensibility ‘took’ both as a well-built ship takes a huge wave. Iexulted. The noise, though gigantic, was like giants’ laughter: like therevelry of a whole college of giants together laughing, dancing, singing,roaring at their high works.

Near the place where the fall plunged into the lake there grew a tree.Wet with the spray, half-veiled in foam-bows, flashing with the bright,innumerable birds that flew among its branches, it rose in many shapes ofbillowy foliage, huge as a fen-land cloud. From every point apples ofgold gleamed through the leaves.

Suddenly my attention was diverted by a curious appearance in theforeground. A hawthorn bush not twenty yards away seemed to be behavingoddly. Then I saw that it was not the bush but something standing closeto the bush and on this side of it. Finally I realised that it was one ofthe Ghosts. It was crouching as if to conceal itself from somethingbeyond the bush, and it was looking back at me and making signals. Itkept on signing to me to duck down. As I could not see what the dangerwas, I stood fast.

Presently the Ghost, after peering around in every direction, venturedbeyond the hawthorn bush. It could not get on very fast because of thetorturing grasses beneath its feet, but it was obviously going as fast asit possibly could, straight for another tree. There it stopped again,standing straight upright against the trunk as though it were takingcover. Because the shadow of the branches now covered it, I could see itbetter: it was my bowler-hatted companion, the one whom the Big Ghost hadcalled Ned. After it had stood panting at the tree for about ten minutesand carefully reconnoitred the ground ahead, it made a dash for anothertree—such a dash as was possible to it. In this way, with infinite labourand caution, it had reached the great Tree in about an hour. That is, ithad come within ten yards of it.

Here it was checked. Round the Tree grew a belt of lilies: to the Ghostan insuperable obstacle. It might as well have tried to tread down ananti-tank trap as to walk _on_ them. It lay down and tried to crawlbetween them but they grew too close and they would not bend. And all thetime it was apparently haunted by the terror of discovery. At everywhisper of the wind it stopped and cowered: once, at the cry of a bird,it struggled back to its last place of cover: but then desire hounded itout again and it crawled once more to the Tree. I saw it clasp its handsand writhe in the agony of its frustration.

The wind seemed to be rising. I saw the Ghost wring its hand and put itsthumb into its mouth—cruelly pinched, I doubt not, between two stems ofthe lilies when the breeze swayed them. Then came a real gust. Thebranches of the Tree began to toss. A moment later and half a dozenapples had fallen round the Ghost and on it. He gave a sharp cry, butsuddenly checked it. I thought the weight of the golden fruit where ithad fallen on him would have disabled him: and certainly, for a fewminutes, he was unable to rise. He lay whimpering, nursing his wounds.But soon he was at work again. I could see him feverishly trying to fillhis pockets with the apples. Of course it was useless. One could see howhis ambitions were gradually forced down. He gave up the idea of apocketful: two would have to do. He gave up the idea of two, he wouldtake one, the largest one. He gave up that hope. He was now looking forthe smallest one. He was trying to find if there was one small enough tocarry.

The amazing thing was that he succeeded. When I remembered what the leafhad felt like when I tried to lift it, I could hardly help admiring thisunhappy creature when I saw him rise staggering to his feet actuallyholding the smallest of the apples in his hands. He was lame from hishurts, and the weight bent him double. Yet even so, inch by inch, stillavailing himself of every scrap of cover, he set out on his _viadolorosa_ to the bus, carrying his torture.

‘Fool. Put it down,’ said a great voice suddenly. It was quite unlike anyother voice I had heard so far. It was a thunderous yet liquid voice.With an appalling certainty I knew that the waterfall itself wasspeaking: and I saw now (though it did not cease to look like awaterfall) that it was also a bright angel who stood, like one crucified,against the rocks and poured himself perpetually down towards the forestwith loud joy.

‘Fool,’ he said, ‘put it down. You cannot take it back. There is not roomfor it in Hell. Stay here and learn to eat such apples. The very leavesand the blades of grass in the wood will delight to teach you.’

Whether the Ghost heard or not, I don’t know. At any rate, after pausingfor a few minutes, it braced itself anew for its agonies and continuedwith even greater caution till I lost sight of it.

                                   7.

Although I watched the misfortunes of the Ghost in the Bowler with somecomplacency, I found, when we were left alone, that I could not bear thepresence of the Water-Giant. It did not appear to take any notice of me,but I became self-conscious; and I rather think there was some assumednonchalance in my movements as I walked away over the flat rocks,down-stream again. I was beginning to be tired. Looking at the silverfish which darted over the riverbed, I wished greatly that to me alsothat water were permeable. I should have liked a dip.

‘Thinking of going back?’ said a voice close at hand. I turned and saw atall ghost standing with its back against a tree, chewing a ghostlycheroot. It was that of a lean hard-bitten man with grey hair and agruff, but not uneducated voice: the kind of man I have alwaysinstinctively felt to be reliable.

‘I don’t know,’ said I. ‘Are you?’

‘Yes,’ it replied. ‘I guess I’ve seen about all there is to see.’

‘You don’t think of staying?’

‘That’s all propaganda,’ it said. ‘Of course there never was any questionof our staying. You can’t eat the fruit and you can’t drink the water andit takes you all your time to walk on the grass. A human being couldn’tlive here. All that idea of staying is only an advertisement stunt.’

‘Then why did you come?’

‘Oh, I don’t know. Just to have a look round. I’m the sort of chap wholikes to see things for himself. Wherever I’ve been I’ve always had alook at anything that was being cracked up. When I was out East, I wentto see Pekin. When . . .’

‘What was Pekin like?’

‘Nothing to it. Just one darn wall inside another. Just a trap fortourists. I’ve been pretty well everywhere. Niagara Falls, the Pyramids,Salt Lake City, the Taj Mahal. . . .’

‘What was _it_ like?’

‘Not worth looking at. They’re all advertisement stunts. All run by thesame people. There’s a combine, you know, a World Combine, that justtakes an Atlas and decides where they’ll have a Sight. Doesn’t matterwhat they choose: anything’ll do as long as the publicity’s properlymanaged.’

‘And you’ve lived—er—_down there_—in the Town—for some time?’

‘In what they call Hell? Yes. It’s a flop too. They lead you to expectred fire and devils and all sorts of interesting people sizzling ongrids—Henry VIII and all that—but when you get there it’s just like anyother town.’

‘I prefer it up here,’ said I.

‘Well, I don’t see what all the talk is about,’ said the Hard-BittenGhost. ‘It’s as good as any other park to look at, and darneduncomfortable.’

‘There seems to be some idea that if one stays here one would get—well,solider—grow acclimatised.’

‘I know all about that,’ said the Ghost. ‘Same old lie. People have beentelling me that sort of thing all my life. They told me in the nurserythat if I were good I’d be happy. And they told me at school that Latinwould get easier as I went on. After I’d been married a month some foolwas telling me that there were always difficulties at first, but withTact and Patience I’d soon “settle down” and like it! And all through twowars what didn’t they say about the good time coming if only I’d be abrave boy and go on being shot at? Of course they’ll play the old gamehere if anyone’s fool enough to listen.’

‘But who are “They”? This might be run by someone different?’

‘Entirely new management, eh? Don’t you believe it! It’s _never_ a newmanagement. You’ll always find the same old Ring. I know all about dear,kind Mummie coming up to your bedroom and getting all she wants to knowout of you: but you always found she and Father were the same firmreally. Didn’t we find that both sides in all the wars were run by thesame Armament Firms? or the same Firm, which is behind the Jews and theVatican and the Dictators and the Democracies and all the rest of it. Allthis stuff up here is run by the same people as the Town. They’re justlaughing at us.’

‘I thought they were at war?’

‘Of course you did. That’s the official version. But who’s ever seen anysigns of it? Oh, I know that’s how they _talk_. But if there’s a real warwhy don’t they do anything? Don’t you see that if the official versionwere true these chaps up here would attack and sweep the Town out ofexistence? They’ve got the strength. If they wanted to rescue _us_ theycould do it. But obviously the last thing they want is to end theirso-called “war”. The whole game depends on keeping it going.’

This account of the matter struck me as uncomfortably plausible. I saidnothing.

‘Anyway,’ said the Ghost, ‘who wants to be rescued? What the hell wouldthere be to _do_ here?’

‘Or there?’ said I.

‘Quite,’ said the Ghost. ‘They’ve got you either way.’

‘What would you like to do if you had your choice?’ I asked.

‘There you go!’ said the Ghost with a certain triumph. ‘Asking _me_ tomake a plan. It’s up to the Management to find something that doesn’tbore us, isn’t it? It’s their job. Why should we do it for them? That’sjust where all the parsons and moralists have got the thing upside down.They keep on asking _us_ to alter ourselves. But if the people who runthe show are so clever and so powerful, why don’t they find something tosuit their public? All this poppycock about growing harder so that thegrass doesn’t hurt our feet, now! There’s an example. What would you sayif you went to a hotel where the eggs were all bad; and when youcomplained to the Boss, instead of apologising and changing his dairyman,he just told you that if you tried you’d get to like bad eggs in time?’

‘Well, I’ll be getting along,’ said the Ghost after a short silence. ‘Youcoming my way?’

‘There doesn’t seem to be much point in going anywhere on your showing,’I replied. A great depression had come over me. ‘And at least it’s notraining here.’

‘Not at the moment,’ said the Hard-Bitten Ghost. ‘But I never saw one ofthese bright mornings that didn’t turn to rain later on. And, by gum,when it does rain here! Ah, you hadn’t thought of that? It hadn’toccurred to you that with the sort of water they have here every raindropwill make a hole in you, like a machine-gun bullet. That’s their littlejoke, you see. First of all tantalise you with ground you can’t walk onand water you can’t drink and then drill you full of holes. But theywon’t catch _me_ that way.’

A few minutes later he moved off.

                                   8.

I sat still on a stone by the river’s side feeling as miserable as I everfelt in my life. Hitherto it had not occurred to me to doubt theintentions of the Solid People, nor to question the essential goodness oftheir country even if it were a country which I could not long inhabit.It had indeed once crossed my mind that if these Solid People were asbenevolent as I had heard one or two of them claim to be, they might havedone something to help the inhabitants of the Town—something more thanmeeting them on the plain. Now a terrible explanation came into my mind.How if they had never meant to do us good at all? How if this whole tripwere allowed the Ghosts merely to mock them? Horrible myths and doctrinesstirred in my memory. I thought how the Gods had punished Tantalus. Ithought of the place in the Book of Revelation where it says that thesmoke of Hell goes up forever in the sight of the blessed spirits. Iremembered how poor Cowper, dreaming that he was not after all doomed toperdition, at once knew the dream to be false and said, ‘These are thesharpest arrows in His quiver.’ And what the Hard-Bitten Ghost had saidabout the rain was clearly true. Even a shower of dew-drops from a branchmight tear me in pieces. I had not thought of this before. And how easilyI might have ventured into the spray of the waterfall!

The sense of danger, which had never been entirely absent since I leftthe bus, awoke with sharp urgency. I gazed around on the trees, theflowers, and the talking cataract: they had begun to look unbearablysinister. Bright insects darted to and fro. If one of those were to flyinto my face, would it not go right through me? If it settled on my head,would it crush me to earth? Terror whispered, ‘This is no place for you.’I remembered also the lions.

With no very clear plan in my mind, I rose and began walking away fromthe river in the direction where the trees grew closest together. I hadnot fully made up my mind to go back to the bus, but I wanted to avoidopen places. If only I could find a trace of evidence that it was reallypossible for a Ghost to stay—that the choice was not only a cruelcomedy—I would not go back. In the meantime I went on, gingerly, andkeeping a sharp look-out. In about half an hour I came to a littleclearing with some bushes in the centre. As I stopped, wondering if Idared cross it, I realised that I was not alone.

A Ghost hobbled across the clearing—as quickly as it could on that uneasysoil—looking over its shoulder as if it were pursued. I saw that it hadbeen a woman: a well-dressed woman, I thought, but its shadows of finerylooked ghastly in the morning light. It was making for the bushes. Itcould not really get in among them—the twigs and leaves were too hard—butit pressed as close up against them as it could. It seemed to believe itwas hiding.

A moment later I heard the sound of feet, and one of the Bright Peoplecame in sight: one always noticed that sound there, for we Ghosts made nonoise when we walked.

‘Go away!’ squealed the Ghost. ‘Go away! Can’t you see I want to bealone?’

‘But you need help,’ said the Solid One.

‘If you have the least trace of decent feeling left,’ said the Ghost,‘you’ll keep away. I don’t want help. I want to be left alone. Do goaway. You know I can’t walk fast enough on those horrible spikes to getaway from you. It’s abominable of you to take advantage.’

‘Oh, that!’ said the Spirit. ‘That’ll soon come right. But you’re goingin the wrong direction. It’s back there—to the mountains—you need to go.You can lean on me all the way. I can’t absolutely _carry_ you, but youneed have almost no weight on your own feet: and it will hurt less atevery step.’

‘I’m not afraid of being hurt. You know that.’

‘Then what is the matter?’

‘Can’t you understand _anything_? Do you really suppose I’m going outthere among all those people, like _this_?’

‘But why not?’

‘I’d never have come at all if I’d known you were all going to be dressedlike that.’

‘Friend, you see I’m not dressed at all.’

‘I didn’t mean that. Do go away.’

‘But can’t you even tell me?’

‘If you can’t understand, there’d be no good trying to explain it. How_can_ I go out like this among a lot of people with real solid bodies?It’s far worse than going out with nothing on would have been on earth.Have everyone staring _through_ me.’

‘Oh, I see. But we were all a bit ghostly when we first arrived, youknow. That’ll wear off. Just come out and try.’

‘But they’ll _see_ me.’

‘What does it matter if they do?’

‘I’d rather die.’

‘But you’ve died already. There’s no good trying to go back to that.’

The Spirit made a sound something between a sob and a snarl. ‘I wish I’dnever been born,’ it said. ‘What _are_ we born for?’

‘For infinite happiness,’ said the Spirit. ‘You can step out into it atany moment. . . .’

‘But, I tell you, they’ll _see_ me.’

‘An hour hence and you will not care. A day hence and you will laugh atit. Don’t you remember on earth—there were things too hot to touch withyour finger but you could drink them all right? Shame is like that. Ifyou will accept it—if you will drink the cup to the bottom—you will findit very nourishing: but try to do anything else with it and it scalds.’

‘You really mean? . . .’ said the Ghost, and then paused. My suspense wasstrained up to the height. I felt that my own destiny hung on her reply.I could have fallen at her feet and begged her to yield.

‘Yes,’ said the Spirit. ‘Come and try.’

Almost, I thought the Ghost had obeyed. Certainly it had moved: butsuddenly it cried out, ‘No, I can’t. I tell you I can’t. For a moment,while you were talking, I almost thought . . . but when it comes to thepoint. . . . You’ve no right to ask me to do a thing like that. It’sdisgusting. I should never forgive myself if I did. Never, never. Andit’s not fair. They ought to have warned us. I’d never have come. Andnow—please, please go away!’

‘Friend,’ said the Spirit. ‘Could you, only for a moment, fix your mindon something not yourself?’

‘I’ve already given you my answer,’ said the Ghost, coldly but stilltearful.

‘Then only one expedient remains,’ said the Spirit, and to my greatsurprise he set a horn to his lips and blew. I put my hands over my ears.The earth seemed to shake: the whole wood trembled and dindled at thesound. I suppose there must have been a pause after that (though thereseemed to be none) before I heard the thudding of hoofs—far off at first,but already nearer before I had well identified it, and soon so near thatI began to look about for some place of safety. Before I had found onethe danger was all about us. A herd of unicorns came thundering throughthe glades: twenty-seven hands high the smallest of them and white asswans but for the red gleam in eyes and nostrils and the flashing indigoof their horns. I can still remember the squelching noise of the soft wetturf under their hoofs, the breaking of the undergrowth, the snorting andthe whinneyings; how their hind legs went up and their horned heads downin mimic battle. Even then I wondered for what real battle it might bethe rehearsal. I heard the Ghost scream, and I think it made a bolt awayfrom the bushes . . . perhaps towards the Spirit, but I don’t know. Formy own nerve failed and I fled, not heeding, for the moment, the horriblegoing underfoot, and not once daring to pause. So I never saw the end ofthat interview.

                                   9.

‘Where are ye going?’ said a voice with a strong Scotch accent. I stoppedand looked. The sound of the unicorns had long since died away and myflight had brought me to open country, I saw the mountains where theunchanging sunrise lay, and in the foreground two or three pines on alittle knoll, with some large smooth rocks, and heather. On one of therocks sat a very tall man, almost a giant, with a flowing beard. I hadnot yet looked one of the Solid People in the face. Now, when I did so, Idiscovered that one sees them with a kind of double vision. Here was anenthroned and shining god, whose ageless spirit weighed upon mine like aburden of solid gold: and yet, at the very same moment, here was an oldweather-beaten man, one who might have been a shepherd—such a man astourists think simple because he is honest and neighbours think ‘deep’for the same reason. His eyes had the far-seeing look of one who haslived long in open, solitary places; and somehow I divined the network ofwrinkles which must have surrounded them before re-birth had washed himin immortality.

‘I—I don’t quite know,’ said I.

‘Ye can sit and talk to me, then,’ he said, making room for me on thestone.

‘I don’t know you, Sir,’ said I, taking my seat beside him.

‘My name is George,’ he answered. ‘Alastair Green.’

‘Oh!’ I cried. ‘Then you can tell me! You at least will not deceive me.’Then, supposing that these expressions of confidence needed someexplanation, I tried, trembling, to tell this man all that his writingshad done for me. I tried to tell how a certain frosty afternoon atLeatherhead Station when I first bought a copy of _Phantastes_ (beingthen about sixteen years old) had been to me what the first sight ofBeatrice had been to Dante: _Here begins the New Life_. I started toconfess how long that Life had delayed in the region of imaginationmerely: how slowly and reluctantly I had come to admit that hisChristendom had more than an accidental connexion with it, how hard I hadtried not to see that the true name of the quality which first met me inhis books is Holiness. He laid his hand on mine and stopped me.

‘Son,’ he said, ‘Your love—all love—is of inexpressible value to me. Butit may save precious time’ (here he suddenly looked very Scotch) ‘if Iinform ye that I am already well acquainted with these biographicaldetails. In fact, I have noticed that your memory misleads you in one ortwo particulars.’

‘Oh!’ said I, and became still.

‘Ye had started’, said my Teacher, ‘to talk of something moreprofitable.’

‘Sir,’ said I, ‘I had almost forgotten it, and I have no anxiety aboutthe answer now, though I have still a curiosity. It is about theseGhosts. _Do_ any of them stay? _Can_ they stay? Is any real choiceoffered to them? How do they come to be here?’

‘Did ye never hear of the _Refrigerium_? A man with your advantages mighthave read of it in Prudentius, not to mention William Harris.’

‘The name is familiar, Sir, but I’m afraid I’ve forgotten what it means.’

‘It means that the damned have holidays—excursions, ye understand.’

‘Excursions to _this_ country?’

‘For those that will take them. Of course most of the silly creaturesdon’t. They prefer taking trips back to Earth. They go and play tricks onthe poor daft women ye call mediums. They go and try to assert theirownership of some house that once belonged to them: and then ye getwhat’s called a Haunting. Or they go to spy on their children. Orliterary ghosts hang about public libraries to see if anyone’s stillreading their books.’

‘But if they come here they can really stay?’

‘Aye. Ye’ll have heard that the emperor Antoninus did.’

‘But I don’t understand. Is judgement not final? Is there really a wayout of Hell into Heaven?’

‘It depends on the way ye’re using the words. If they leave that greytown behind it will not have been Hell. To any that leaves it, it isPurgatory. And perhaps ye had better not call this country Heaven. Not_Deep Heaven_, ye understand.’ (Here he smiled at me). ‘Ye can call itthe Valley of the Shadow of Life. And yet to those who stay here it willhave been Heaven from the first. And ye can call those sad streets in thetown yonder the Valley of the Shadow of Death: but to those who remainthere they will have been Hell even from the beginning.’

I suppose he saw that I looked puzzled, for presently he spoke again.

‘Son,’ he said, ‘ye cannot in your present state understand eternity:when Thalos looked through the door of the Timeless he brought no messageback. But ye can get some likeness of it if ye say that both good andevil, when they are full grown, become retrospective. Not only thisvalley but all their earthly past will have been Heaven to those who aresaved. Not only the twilight in that town, but all their life on earthtoo, will then be seen by the damned to have been Hell. That is whatmortals misunderstand. They say of some temporal suffering, “No futurebliss can make up for it,” not knowing that Heaven, once attained, willwork backwards and turn even that agony into a glory. And of some sinfulpleasure they say “Let me but have _this_ and I’ll take theconsequences”: little dreaming how damnation will spread back and backinto their past and contaminate the pleasure of the sin. Both processesbegin even before death. The good man’s past begins to change so that hisforgiven sins and remembered sorrows take on the quality of Heaven: thebad man’s past already conforms to his badness and is filled only withdreariness. And that is why, at the end of all things, when the sun riseshere and the twilight turns to blackness down there, the Blessed will say“We have never lived anywhere except in Heaven”, and the Lost, “We werealways in Hell.” And both will speak truly.’

‘Is not that very hard, Sir?’

‘I mean, that is the real sense of what they will say. In the actuallanguage of the Lost, the words will be different, no doubt. One will sayhe has always served his country right or wrong; and another that he hassacrificed everything to his Art; and some that they’ve never been takenin, and some that, thank God, they’ve always looked after Number One, andnearly all, that, at least they’ve been true to themselves.’

‘And the Saved?’

‘Ah, the Saved . . . what happens to them is best described as theopposite of a mirage. What seemed, when they entered it, to be the valeof misery turns out, when they look back, to have been a well; and wherepresent experience saw only salt deserts memory truthfully records thatthe pools were full of water.’

‘Then those people are right who say that Heaven and Hell are only statesof mind?’

‘Hush,’ said he sternly. ‘Do not blaspheme. Hell is a state of mind—yenever said a truer word. And every state of mind, left to itself, everyshutting up of the creature within the dungeon of its own mind—is, in theend, Hell. But Heaven is not a state of mind. Heaven is reality itself.All that is fully real is Heavenly. For all that can be shaken will beshaken and only the unshakeable remains.’

‘But there is a real choice after death? My Roman Catholic friends wouldbe surprised, for to them souls in Purgatory are already saved. And myProtestant friends would like it no better, for they’d say that the treelies as it falls.’

‘They’re both right, maybe. Do not fash yourself with such questions. Yecannot fully understand the relations of choice and Time till you arebeyond both. And ye were not brought here to study such curiosities. Whatconcerns you is the nature of the choice itself: and that ye can watchthem making.’

‘Well, Sir,’ I said, ‘That also needs explaining. What do they choose,these souls who go back (I have yet seen no others)? And how _can_ theychoose it?’

‘Byron was right,’ said my Teacher. ‘The choice of every lost soul canbe expressed in the words “Better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven.”There is always something they insist on keeping, even at the price ofmisery. There is always something they prefer to joy—that is, to reality.Ye see it easily enough in a spoiled child that would sooner miss itsplay and its supper than say it was sorry and be friends. Ye call it theSulks. But in adult life it has a hundred fine names—Patroclus’ wrath andFabius’ grandeur, Revenge and Injured Merit and Self-Respect andTragic Greatness and Proper Pride.’

‘Then is no one lost through the undignified vices, Sir? Through meresensuality?’

‘Some are, no doubt. The sensualist, I’ll allow ye, begins by pursuing areal pleasure, though a small one. His sin is the less. But the timecomes on when, though the pleasure becomes less and less and the cravingfiercer and fiercer, and though he knows that joy can never come thatway, yet he prefers to joy the mere fondling of unappeasable lust andwould not have it taken from him. He’d fight to the death to keep it.He’d like well to be able to scratch: but even when he can scratch nomore he’d rather itch than not.’

He was silent for a few minutes, and then began again.

‘Ye’ll understand, there are innumerable forms of this choice. Sometimesforms that one hardly thought of at all on earth. There was a creaturecame here not long ago and went back—Sir Lionel they called him. Inhis earthly life he’d been interested in nothing but Survival. He’dwritten a whole shelf-full of books about it. He began by beingphilosophical, but in the end he took up Psychical Research. It grew tobe his only occupation—experimenting, lecturing, running a magazine. Andtravelling too: digging out queer stories among Thibetan lamas and beinginitiated into brotherhoods in Central Africa. Proofs—and more proofs—andthen more proofs again—were what he wanted. It drove him mad if ever hesaw anyone taking an interest in anything else. He got into troubleduring one of your wars for running up and down the country telling themnot to fight because it wasted a lot of money that ought to be spent onResearch. Well, in good time, the poor creature died and came here: andthere was no power in the universe would have prevented him staying andgoing on to the mountains. But do ye think that did him any good? Thiscountry was no use to him at all. Everyone here had “survived” already.Nobody took the least interest in the question. There was nothing more toprove. His occupation was clean gone. Of course if he would only haveadmitted that he’d mistaken the means for the end and had a good laugh athimself he could have begun all over again like a little child andentered into joy. But he would not do that. He cared nothing about joy.In the end he went away.’

‘How fantastic!’ said I.

‘Do ye think so?’ said the Teacher with a piercing glance. ‘It is nearerto such as you than ye think. There have been men before now who got sointerested in proving the existence of God that they came to care nothingfor God Himself . . . as if the good Lord had nothing to do but exist!There have been some who were so occupied in spreading Christianity thatthey never gave a thought to Christ. Man! Ye see it in smaller matters.Did ye never know a lover of books that with all his first editions andsigned copies had lost the power to read them? Or an organiser ofcharities that had lost all love for the poor? It is the subtlest of allthe snares.’

Moved by a desire to change the subject, I asked why the Solid People,since they were full of love, did not go down into Hell to rescue theGhosts. Why were they content simply to meet them on the plain? One wouldhave expected a more militant charity.

‘Ye will understand that better, perhaps before ye go,’ said he. ‘In themeantime, I must tell ye they have come further for the sake of theGhosts than ye can understand. Every one of us lives only to journeyfurther and further into the mountains. Every one of us has interruptedthat journey and retraced immeasurable distances to come down to-day onthe mere chance of saving some Ghost. Of course it is also joy to do so,but ye cannot blame us for that! And it would be no use to come furthereven if it were possible. The sane would do no good if they madethemselves mad to help madmen.’

‘But what of the poor Ghosts who never get into the omnibus at all?’

‘Everyone who wishes it does. Never fear. There are only two kinds ofpeople in the end: those who say to God, “Thy will be done,” and those towhom God says, in the end, “_Thy_ will be done.” All that are in Hell,choose it. Without that self-choice there could be no Hell. No soul thatseriously and constantly desires joy will ever miss it. Those who seekfind. To those who knock it is opened.’

At this moment we were suddenly interrupted by the thin voice of a Ghosttalking at an enormous speed. Looking behind us we saw the creature. Itwas addressing one of the Solid People and was doing so too busily tonotice us. Every now and then the Solid Spirit tried to get in a word butwithout success. The Spirit’s talk was like this:

‘Oh, my dear, I’ve had such a dreadful time, I don’t know how I ever gothere at all, I was coming with Marian Clay and we’d arranged the wholething and we were to meet at the corner of Sink Street; I made itperfectly plain because I knew what she was like and if I told her once Itold her a hundred times I would _not_ meet her outside that dreadfulMarjoribanks woman’s house, not after the way she’d treated me . . . thatwas one of the most dreadful things that happened to me; I’ve been dyingto tell you because I felt sure you’d tell me I acted rightly; no, wait amoment, dear, till I’ve told you—I tried living with her when I firstcame and it was all fixed up, she was to do the cooking and I was to lookafter the house and I _did_ think I was going to be comfortable after allI’d been through but she turned out to be so changed, absolutely selfish,and not a particle of sympathy for anyone but herself—and as I once saidto her “I _do_ think I’m entitled to a little consideration because youat least lived out your time, but I oughtn’t to have been here for yearsand years yet”—oh but of course I’m forgetting you don’t know—I wasmurdered, simply murdered, dear, that man should never have operated, Iought to be alive to-day and they simply _starved_ me in that dreadfulnursing home and no one ever came near me and . . .’

The shrill monotonous whine died away as the speaker still accompanied bythe bright patience at her side, moved out of hearing.

‘What troubles ye, son?’ asked my Teacher.

‘I am troubled, Sir,’ said I, ‘because that unhappy creature doesn’t seemto me to be the sort of soul that ought to be even in danger ofdamnation. She isn’t wicked: she’s only a silly, garrulous old woman whohas got into a habit of grumbling, and one feels that a little kindness,and rest, and change would put her all right.’

‘That is what she once was. That is maybe what she still is. If so, shecertainly will be cured. But the whole question is whether she _is_ now agrumbler.’

‘I should have thought there was no doubt about that!’

‘Aye, but ye misunderstand me. The question is whether she is a grumbler,or only a grumble. If there is a real woman—even the least trace ofone—still there inside the grumbling, it can be brought to life again. Ifthere’s one wee spark under all those ashes, we’ll blow it till the wholepile is red and clear. But if there’s nothing but ashes we’ll not go onblowing them in our own eyes forever. They must be swept up.’

‘But how can there be a grumble without a grumbler?’

‘The whole difficulty of understanding Hell is that the thing to beunderstood is so nearly Nothing. But ye’ll have had experiences . . . itbegins with a grumbling mood, and yourself still distinct from it:perhaps criticising it. And yourself, in a dark hour, may will that mood,embrace it. Ye can repent and come out of it again. But there may come aday when you can do that no longer. Then there will be no _you_ left tocriticise the mood, nor even to enjoy it, but just the grumble itselfgoing on forever like a machine. But come! Ye are here to watch andlisten. Lean on my arm and we will go for a little walk.’

I obeyed. To lean on the arm of someone older than myself was anexperience that carried me back to childhood, and with this support Ifound the going tolerable: so much so, indeed, that I flattered myself myfeet were already growing more solid, until a glance at the poortransparent shapes convinced me that I owed all this ease to the strongarm of the Teacher. Perhaps it was because of his presence that my othersenses also appeared to be quickened. I noticed scents in the air whichhad hitherto escaped me, and the country put on new beauties. There waswater everywhere and tiny flowers quivering in the early breeze. Far offin the woods we saw the deer glancing past, and, once, a sleek panthercame purring to my companion’s side. We also saw many of the Ghosts.

I think the most pitiable was a female Ghost. Her trouble was the veryopposite of that which afflicted the other, the lady frightened by theUnicorns. This one seemed quite unaware of her phantasmal appearance.More than one of the Solid People tried to talk to her, and at first Iwas quite at a loss to understand her behaviour to them. She appeared tobe contorting her all but invisible face and writhing her smokelike bodyin a quite meaningless fashion. At last I came to theconclusion—incredible as it seemed—that she supposed herself stillcapable of attracting them and was trying to do so. She was a thing thathad become incapable of conceiving conversation save as a means to thatend. If a corpse already liquid with decay had arisen from the coffin,smeared its gums with lipstick, and attempted a flirtation, the resultcould not have been more appalling. In the end she muttered ‘Stupidcreatures’, and turned back to the bus.

This put me in mind to ask my Teacher what he thought of the affair withthe Unicorns. ‘It will maybe have succeeded,’ he said. ‘Ye will havedivined that he meant to frighten her; not that fear itself could makeher less a Ghost, but if it took her mind a moment off herself, theremight, in that moment, be a chance. I have seen them saved so.’

We met several Ghosts that had come so near to Heaven only in order totell the Celestials about Hell. Indeed this is one of the commonesttypes. Others, who had perhaps been (like myself) teachers of some kindactually wanted to give lectures about it: they brought fat notebooksfull of statistics, and maps, and (one of them) a magic lantern. Somewanted to tell anecdotes of the notorious sinners of all ages whom theyhad met below. But the most part seemed to think that the mere fact ofhaving contrived for themselves so much misery gave them a kind ofsuperiority. ‘You have led a sheltered life!’ they bawled. ‘You don’tknow the seamy side. We’ll tell you. We’ll give you some hard facts’—asif to tinge Heaven with infernal images and colours had been the onlypurpose for which they came. All alike, so far as I could judge from myown exploration of the lower world, were wholly unreliable, and allequally incurious about the country in which they had arrived. Theyrepelled every attempt to teach them, and when they found that nobodylistened to them they went back, one by one, to the bus.

This curious wish to describe Hell turned out, however, to be only themildest form of a desire very common among the Ghosts—the desire to_extend_ Hell, to bring it bodily, if they could, into Heaven. There weretub-thumping Ghosts who in thin, bat-like voices urged the blessedspirits to shake off their fetters, to escape from their imprisonment inhappiness, to tear down the mountains with their hands, to seize Heaven‘for their own’: Hell offered her co-operation. There were planningGhosts who implored them to dam the river, cut down the trees, kill theanimals, build a mountain railway, smooth out the horrible grass and mossand heather with asphalt. There were materialistic Ghosts who informedthe immortals that they were deluded: there was no life after death, andthis whole country was a hallucination. There were Ghosts, plain andsimple: mere bogies, fully conscious of their own decay, who had acceptedthe traditional rôle of the spectre, and seemed to hope they couldfrighten someone. I had had no idea that this desire was possible. But myTeacher reminded me that the pleasure of frightening is by no meansunknown on earth, and also of Cassius’ saying: ‘They terrify lest theyshould fear.’ When the _débris_ of a decayed human soul finds itselfcrumbled into ghosthood and realises ‘I myself am now that which allhumanity has feared, I am just that cold churchyard shadow, that horriblething which cannot be, yet somehow is’, then to terrify others appears toit an escape from the doom of being a Ghost yet still fearingGhosts—fearing even the Ghost it is. For to be afraid of oneself is thelast horror.

But, beyond all these, I saw other grotesque phantoms in which hardly atrace of the human form remained; monsters who had faced the journey tothe bus stop—perhaps for them it was thousands of miles—and come up tothe country of the Shadow of Life and limped far into it over thetorturing grass, only to spit and gibber out in one ecstasy of hatredtheir envy and (what is harder to understand) their contempt, of joy. Thevoyage seemed to them a small price to pay if once, only once, withinsight of that eternal dawn, they could tell the prigs, the toffs, thesanctimonious humbugs, the snobs, the ‘haves’, what they thought of them.

‘How do they come to be here at all?’ I asked my Teacher.

‘I have seen that kind converted’, said he, ‘when those ye would thinkless deeply damned have gone back. Those that hate goodness are sometimesnearer than those that know nothing at all about it and think they haveit already.’

‘Whisht, now!’ said my Teacher suddenly. We were standing close to somebushes and beyond them I saw one of the Solid People and a Ghost who hadapparently just that moment met. The outlines of the Ghost looked vaguelyfamiliar, but I soon realized that what I had seen on earth was not theman himself but photographs of him in the papers. He had been a famousartist.

‘God!’ said the Ghost, glancing round the landscape.

‘God what?’ asked the Spirit.

‘What do you mean, “God what”?’ asked the Ghost.

‘In our grammar _God_ is a noun.’

‘Oh—I see. I only meant “By Gum” or something of the sort. I meant . . .well, all _this_. It’s . . . it’s . . . I should like to paint this.’

‘I shouldn’t bother about that just at present if I were you.’

‘Look here; isn’t one going to be allowed to go on painting?’

‘Looking comes first.’

‘But I’ve had my look. I’ve seen just what I want to do. God!—I wish I’dthought of bringing my things with me!’

The Spirit shook his head, scattering light from his hair as he did so.‘That sort of thing’s no good here,’ he said.

‘What do you mean?’ said the Ghost.

‘When you painted on earth—at least in your earlier days—it was becauseyou caught glimpses of Heaven in the earthly landscape. The success ofyour painting was that it enabled others to see the glimpses too. Buthere you are having the thing itself. It is from here that the messagescame. There is no good _telling_ us about this country, for we see italready. In fact we see it better than you do.’

‘Then there’s never going to be any point in painting here?’

‘I don’t say that. When you’ve grown into a Person (it’s all right, weall had to do it) there’ll be some things which you’ll see better thananyone else. One of the things you’ll want to do will be to tell us aboutthem. But not yet. At present your business is to see. Come and see. Heis endless. Come and feed.’

There was a little pause. ‘That will be delightful,’ said the Ghostpresently in a rather dull voice.

‘Come, then,’ said the Spirit, offering it his arm.

‘How soon do you think I _could_ begin painting?’ it asked.

The Spirit broke into laughter. ‘Don’t you see you’ll never paint at allif that’s what you’re thinking about?’ he said.

‘What do you mean?’ asked the Ghost.

‘Why, if you are interested in the country only for the sake of paintingit, you’ll never learn to see the country.’

‘But that’s just how a real artist _is_ interested in the country.’

‘No. You’re forgetting,’ said the Spirit. ‘That was not how you began.Light itself was your first love: you loved paint only as a means oftelling about light.’

‘Oh, that’s ages ago,’ said the Ghost. ‘One grows out of that. Of course,you haven’t seen my later works. One becomes more and more interested inpaint for its own sake.’

‘One does, indeed. I also have had to recover from that. It was all asnare. Ink and catgut and paint were necessary down there, but they arealso dangerous stimulants. Every poet and musician and artist, but forGrace, is drawn away from love of the thing he tells, to love of thetelling till, down in Deep Hell, they cannot be interested in God at allbut only in what they say about Him. For it doesn’t stop at beinginterested in paint, you know. They sink lower—become interested in theirown personalities and then in nothing but their own reputations.’

‘I don’t think I’m much troubled in _that_ way,’ said the Ghost stiffly.

‘That’s excellent,’ said the Spirit. ‘Not many of us had quite got overit when we first arrived. But if there is any of that inflammation leftit will be cured when you come to the fountain.’

‘What fountain’s that?’

‘It is up there in the mountains,’ said the Spirit. ‘Very cold and clear,between two green hills. A little like Lethe. When you have drunk of ityou forget forever all proprietorship in your own works. You enjoy themjust as if they were someone else’s: without pride and without modesty.’

‘That’ll be grand,’ said the Ghost without enthusiasm.

‘Well, come,’ said the Spirit: and for a few paces he supported thehobbling shadow forward to the East.

‘Of course,’ said the Ghost, as if speaking to itself, ‘there’ll alwaysbe interesting people to meet. . . .’

‘Everyone will be interesting.’

‘Oh—ah—yes, to be sure. I was thinking of people in our own line. Shall Imeet Julian? Or Monet? Or——.’

‘Sooner or later—if they’re here.’

‘But don’t you know?’

‘Well, of course not. I’ve only been here a few years. All the chancesare against my having run across them . . . there are a good many of us,you know.’

‘But surely in the case of distinguished people, you’d hear?’

‘But they aren’t distinguished—no more than anyone else. Don’t youunderstand? The Glory flows into everyone, and back from everyone: likelight and mirrors. But the light’s the thing.’

‘Do you mean there are no famous men?’

‘They are all famous. They are all known, remembered, recognised by theonly Mind that can give a perfect judgement.’

‘Oh, of course, in _that_ sense. . . .’ said the Ghost.

‘Don’t stop,’ said the Spirit, making to lead him still forward.

‘One must be content with one’s reputation among posterity, then,’ saidthe Ghost.

‘My friend,’ said the Spirit. ‘Don’t you know?’

‘Know what?’

‘That you and I are already completely forgotten on the Earth?’

‘Eh? What’s that?’ exclaimed the Ghost, disengaging its arm. ‘Do you meanthose damned Neo-Regionalists have won after all?’

‘Lord love you, yes!’ said the Spirit, once more shaking and shining withlaughter. ‘You couldn’t get five pounds for any picture of mine or evenof yours in Europe or America to-day. We’re dead out of fashion.’

‘I must be off at once,’ said the Ghost. ‘Let me go! Damn it all, one hasone’s duty to the future of Art. I must go back to my friends. I mustwrite an article. There must be a manifesto. We must start a periodical.We must have publicity. Let me go. This is beyond a joke!’

And without listening to the Spirit’s reply, the spectre vanished.

                                  10.

This conversation also we overheard.

‘That is quite, _quite_ out of the question,’ said a female Ghost to oneof the bright Women, ‘I should not dream of staying if I’m expected tomeet Oliver. I am ready to forgive him, of course. But anything more isquite impossible. How he comes to be here . . . but that is your affair.’

‘But if you have forgiven him,’ said the other, ‘surely——.’

‘I forgive him as a Christian,’ said the Ghost. ‘But there are somethings one can never forget.’

‘But I don’t understand. . . .’ began the She-Spirit.

‘Exactly,’ said the Ghost with a little laugh. ‘You never did. You alwaysthought Oliver could do no wrong. I know. Please don’t interrupt for_one_ moment. You haven’t the faintest conception of what I went throughwith your dear Oliver. The ingratitude! It was I who made a man of him!Sacrificed my whole life to him! And what was my reward? Absolute, utterselfishness. No, but listen. He was pottering along on about six hundreda year when I married him. And mark my words, Dorothy, he’d have been inthat position to the day of his death if it hadn’t been for me. It was Iwho had to drive him every step of the way. He hadn’t a spark ofambition. It was like trying to lift a sack of coal. I had to positivelynag him to take on that extra work in the other department, though it wasreally the beginning of everything for him. The laziness of men! He said,if you please, he couldn’t work more than thirteen hours a day! As if Iweren’t working far longer. For _my_ day’s work wasn’t over when his was.I had to keep him going all evening, if you understand what I mean. Ifhe’d had his way he’d have just sat in an armchair and sulked when dinnerwas over. It was I who had to draw him out of himself and brighten him upand make conversation. With no help from him, of course. Sometimes hedidn’t even listen. As I said to him, I should have thought good manners,if nothing else . . . he seemed to have forgotten that I was a lady evenif I _had_ married him, and all the time I was working my fingers to thebone for him: and without the slightest appreciation. I used to spendsimply _hours_ arranging flowers to make that poky little house nice, andinstead of thanking me, what do you think he said? Said he wished Iwouldn’t fill up the writing desk with them when he wanted to use it: andthere was a perfectly frightful fuss one evening because I’d spilled oneof the vases over some papers of his. It was all nonsense really, becausethey weren’t anything to do with his work. He had some silly idea ofwriting a book in those days . . . as if he could. I cured him of that inthe end.

‘No, Dorothy, you _must_ listen to me. The trouble I went to, entertaining!Oliver’s idea was that he’d just slink off by himself every now and thento see what he called his old friends . . . and leave me to amuse myself!But I knew from the first that those friends were doing him no good. “No,Oliver,” said I, “your friends are now mine. It is my duty to have them_here_, however tired I am and however little we can afford it.” You’dhave thought that would have been enough. But they did come for a bit.That is where I had to use a certain amount of tact. A woman who has herwits about her can always drop in a word here and there. I wanted Oliverto see them against a different background. They weren’t quite at theirease, somehow, in my drawing-room: not at their best. I couldn’t helplaughing sometimes. Of course Oliver was uncomfortable while thetreatment was going on, but it was all for his own good in the end. Noneof that set were friends of his any longer by the end of the first year.

‘And then, he got the new job. A great step up. But what _do_ you think?Instead of realising that we now had a chance to spread out a bit, all hesaid was “Well _now_, for God’s sake let’s have some peace.” That nearlyfinished me. I nearly gave him up altogether: but I knew my duty. I havealways done my duty. You can’t believe the work I had getting him toagree to a bigger house, and then finding a house. I wouldn’t havegrudged it one scrap if only he’d taken it in the right spirit—if onlyhe’d seen the _fun_ of it all. If he’d been a different sort of man it_would_ have been fun meeting him on the doorstep as he came back fromthe office and saying “Come along, Oliver, no time for dinner to-night.I’ve just heard of a house out near Watford and I’ve got the keys and wecan get there and back by one o’clock.” But with _him_! It was perfectmisery, Dorothy. For by this time your wonderful Oliver was turning intothe sort of man who cares about nothing but food.

‘Well, I got him into the new house at last. Yes, I know. It was a littlemore than we could really afford at the moment, but all sorts of thingswere opening out before him. And, of course, I began to entertainproperly. No more of his sort of friends, thank you. I was doing it allfor his sake. Every useful friend he ever made was due to me. Naturally,I had to dress well. They ought to have been the happiest years of bothour lives. If they weren’t, he had no one but himself to thank. Oh, hewas a maddening man, simply maddening! He just set himself to get old andsilent and grumpy. Just sank into himself. He could have looked yearsyounger if he’d taken the trouble. He needn’t have walked with astoop—I’m sure I warned him about that often enough. He was the mostmiserable host. Whenever we gave a party everything rested on myshoulders: Oliver was simply a wet blanket. As I said to him (and if Isaid it once, I said it a hundred times) he hadn’t always been like that.There had been a time when he took an interest in all sorts of things andhad been quite ready to make friends. “What on earth is coming over you?”I used to say. But now he just didn’t answer at all. He would sit staringat me with his great big eyes (I came to hate a man with dark eyes) and—Iknow it now—just hating me. That was my reward. After all I’d done. Sheerwicked, senseless hatred: at the very moment when he was a richer manthan he’d ever dreamed of being! As I used to say to him, “Oliver, you’resimply letting yourself go to seed.” The younger men who came to thehouse—it wasn’t _my_ fault if they liked me better than my old bear of ahusband—used to laugh at him.

‘I did my duty to the very end. I _forced_ him to take exercise—that wasreally my chief reason for keeping a great Dane. I kept on givingparties. I took him for the most wonderful holidays. I saw that he didn’tdrink too much. Even, when things became desperate, I encouraged him totake up his writing again. It couldn’t do any harm by then. How could Ihelp it if he _did_ have a nervous breakdown in the end? My conscience isclear. I’ve done my duty by him, if ever a woman has. So you see why itwould be impossible to. . . .

‘And yet . . . I don’t know. I believe I have changed my mind. I’ll makethem a fair offer, Dorothy. I will _not_ meet him, if it means just meetinghim and no more. But if I’m given a free hand I’ll take charge of himagain. I will take up my burden once more. But I must have a free hand.With all the time one would have here, I believe I could still makesomething of him. Somewhere quite to ourselves. Wouldn’t that be a goodplan? He’s not fit to be on his own. Put me in charge of him. He wantsfirm handling. I know him better than you do. What’s that? No, give himto me, do you hear? Don’t consult _him_: just give him to me. I’m hiswife, aren’t I? I was only beginning. There’s lots, lots, lots of thingsI still want to do with him. No, listen, Dorothy. Please, please! I’m somiserable. I must have someone to—to do things to. It’s simply frightfuldown there. No one minds about me at all. I can’t alter them. It’sdreadful to see them all sitting about and not be able to do anythingwith them. Give him back to me. Why should he have everything his ownway? It’s not good for him. It isn’t right, it’s not fair. I want Oliver.What right have you to keep him from me? I hate you. How can I pay himout if you won’t let me have him?’

The Spirit which had towered up like a dying candle-flame snappedsuddenly. A sour, dry smell lingered in the air for a moment and thenthere was no Ghost to be seen.

                                  11.

One of the most painful meetings we witnessed was between a woman’s Ghostand a Bright Spirit who had apparently been her brother. They must havemet only a moment before we ran across them, for the Ghost was justsaying in a tone of unconcealed disappointment, ‘Oh . . . Percival! It’s_you_, is it?’

‘Yes, dear,’ said the Spirit. ‘I know you expected someone else. Can you. . . I hope you can be a little glad to see even me; for the present.’

‘I did think Ewan would have come,’ said the Ghost; and then, almostfiercely, ‘He _is_ here, of course?’

‘He’s there—far up in the mountains.’

‘Why hasn’t he come to meet me? Didn’t he know?’

‘My dear (don’t worry, it will all come right presently) it wouldn’t havedone. Not yet. He wouldn’t be able to see or hear you as you are atpresent. You’d be totally invisible to Ewan. But we’ll soon build youup.’

‘I should have thought if _you_ can see me, my own son could!’

‘It doesn’t always happen like that. You see, I have specialised in thissort of work.’

‘Oh, it’s work, is it?’ snapped the Ghost. Then, after a pause, ‘Well.When _am_ I going to be allowed to see him?’

‘There’s no question of being _allowed_, Nora. As soon as it’s possiblefor him to see you, of course he will. You need to be thickened up abit.’

‘How?’ said the Ghost. The monosyllable was hard and a littlethreatening.

‘I’m afraid the first step is a hard one,’ said the Spirit. ‘But afterthat you’ll go on like a house on fire. You will become solid enough forEwan to perceive you when you learn to want Someone Else besidesEwan. I don’t say “more than Ewan”, not as a beginning. That willcome later. It’s only the little germ of a desire for God that we need tostart the process.’

‘Oh, you mean religion and all that sort of thing? This is hardly themoment . . . and from _you_, of all people. Well, never mind. I’ll dowhatever’s necessary. What do you want me to do? Come on. The sooner Ibegin it, the sooner they’ll let me see my boy. I’m quite ready.’

‘But, Nora, do think! Don’t you see you are not beginning at all as longas you are in that state of mind? You’re treating God only as a means toEwan. But the whole thickening treatment consists in learning to wantGod for His own sake.’

‘You wouldn’t talk like that if you were a mother.’

‘You mean, if I were _only_ a mother. But there is no such thing as beingonly a mother. You exist as Ewan’s mother only because you first existas God’s creature. That relation is older and closer. No, listen, Nora! Healso loves. He also has suffered. He also has waited a long time.’

‘If He loved me He’d let me see my boy. If He loved me why did He takeEwan away from me? I wasn’t going to say anything about that. But it’spretty hard to forgive, you know.’

‘But He had to take Ewan away. Partly for Ewan’s sake. . . .’

‘I’m sure I did my best to make Ewan happy. I gave up my whole life. .. .’

‘Human beings can’t make one another really happy for long. And secondly,for your sake. He wanted your merely instinctive love for your child(tigresses share _that_, you know!) to turn into something better. Hewanted you to love Ewan as He understands love. You cannot love afellow-creature fully till you love God. Sometimes this conversion can bedone while the instinctive love is still gratified. But there was, itseems, no chance of that in your case. The instinct was uncontrolled andfierce and monomaniac. (Ask your daughter, or your husband. Ask our ownmother. You haven’t once thought of _her_.) The only remedy was to takeaway its object. It was a case for surgery. When that first kind of lovewas thwarted, then there was just a chance that in the loneliness, in thesilence, something else might begin to grow.’

‘This is all nonsense—cruel and wicked nonsense. What _right_ have you tosay things like that about Mother-love? It is the highest and holiestfeeling in human nature.’

‘Nora, Nora—no natural feelings are high or low, holy or unholy, inthemselves. They are all holy when God’s hand is on the rein. They all gobad when they set up on their own and make themselves into false gods.’

‘My love for Ewan would never have gone bad. Not if we’d livedtogether for millions of years.’

‘You are mistaken. And you must know. Haven’t you met—down there—motherswho have their sons with them, in Hell? Does _their_ love make themhappy?’

‘If you mean people like the Guthrie woman and her dreadful Bobby, ofcourse not. I hope you’re not suggesting. . . . If I had Ewan I’d beperfectly happy, even in that town. I wouldn’t be always talking abouthim till everyone hated the sound of his name, which is what WinifredGuthrie does about _her_ brat. I wouldn’t quarrel with people for nottaking enough notice of him and then be furiously jealous if they did. Iwouldn’t go about whining and complaining that he wasn’t nice to me.Because, of course, he would be nice. Don’t you dare to suggest thatEwan could ever become like the Guthrie boy. There are some things Iwon’t stand.’

‘What you have seen in the Guthries is what natural affection turns to inthe end if it will not be converted.’

‘It’s a lie. A wicked, cruel lie. How could anyone love their son morethan I did? Haven’t I lived only for his memory all these years?’

‘That was rather a mistake, Nora. In your heart of hearts you know itwas.’

‘What was a mistake?’

‘All that ten years’ ritual of grief. Keeping his room exactly as he’dleft it: keeping anniversaries: refusing to leave that house though Charlieand Iris were both wretched there.’

‘Of course they didn’t care. I know that. I soon learned to expect noreal sympathy from them.’

‘You’re wrong. No man ever felt his son’s death more than Charlie. Not manygirls loved their brothers better than Iris. It wasn’t against Ewanthey revolted: it was against you—against having their whole lifedominated by the tyranny of the past: and not really even Ewan’s past,but your past.’

‘You are heartless. Everyone is heartless. The past was all I had.’

‘It was all you chose to have. It was the wrong way to deal with asorrow. It was Egyptian—like embalming a dead body.’

‘Oh, of course. I’m wrong. Everything I say or do is wrong, according toyou.’

‘But of course!’ said the Spirit, shining with love and mirth so that myeyes were dazzled. ‘That’s what we all find when we reach this country.We’ve all been wrong! That’s the great joke. There’s no need to go onpretending one was right! After that we begin living.’

‘How dare you laugh about it? Give me my boy. Do you hear? I don’t careabout all your rules and regulations. I don’t believe in a God who keepsmother and son apart. I believe in a God of love. No one has a right tocome between me and my son. Not even God. Tell Him that to His face. Iwant my boy, and I mean to have him. He is mine, do you understand? Mine,mine, mine, for ever and ever.’

‘He will be, Nora. Everything will be yours. God Himself will be yours.But not that way. Nothing can be yours by nature.’

‘What? Not my own son, born out of my own body?’

‘And where is your own body now? Didn’t you know that Nature draws to anend? Look! The sun is coming, over the mountains there: it will be up anymoment now.’

‘Ewan is mine.’

‘How yours? You didn’t make him. Nature made him to grow in your bodywithout your will. Even against your will . . . you sometimes forget thatyou didn’t intend to have a baby then at all. Ewan was originally anAccident.’

‘Who told you that?’ said the Ghost: and then, recovering itself, ‘It’s alie. It’s not true. And it’s no business of yours. I hate your religionand I hate and despise your God. I believe in a God of Love.’

‘And yet, Nora, you have no love at this moment for your own mother or forme.’

‘Oh, I see! _That’s_ the trouble, is it? _Really_, Percival! The idea ofyour being hurt because. . . .’

‘Lord love you!’ said the Spirit with a great laugh. ‘You needn’t botherabout that! Don’t you know that you _can’t_ hurt anyone in this country?’

The Spirit was silent and open-mouthed for a moment; more wilted, Ithought, by this re-assurance than by anything else that had been said.

‘Come. We will go a bit further,’ said my Teacher, laying his hand on myarm.

‘Why did you bring me away, Sir?’ said I when we had passed out ofearshot of this unhappy Ghost.

‘It might take a long while, that conversation,’ said my Teacher. ‘And yehave heard enough to see what the choice is.’

‘Is there any hope for her, Sir?’

‘Aye, there’s some. What she calls her love for her son has turned into apoor, prickly, astringent sort of thing. But there’s still a wee spark ofsomething that’s not just her self in it. That might be blown into aflame.’

‘Then some natural feelings are really better than others—I mean, are abetter starting-point for the real thing?’

‘Better _and_ worse. There’s something in natural affection which willlead it on to eternal love more easily than natural appetite could be ledon. But there’s also something in it which makes it easier to stop at thenatural level and mistake it for the heavenly. Brass is mistaken for goldmore easily than clay is. And if it finally refuses conversion itscorruption will be worse than the corruption of what ye call the lowerpassions. It is a stronger angel, and therefore, when it falls, a fiercerdevil.’

‘I don’t know that I dare repeat this on Earth, Sir,’ said I. ‘They’d sayI was inhuman: they’d say I believed in total depravity: they’d say I wasattacking the best and the holiest things. They’d call me. . . .’

‘It might do you no harm if they did,’ said he with (I really thought) atwinkle in his eye.

‘But could one dare—could one have the face—to go to a bereaved mother,in her misery—when one’s not bereaved oneself? . . .’

‘No, no, Son, that’s no office of yours. You’re not a good enough man forthat. When your own heart’s been broken it will be time for you to thinkof talking. But someone must say in general what’s been unsaid among youthis many a year: that love, as mortals understand the word, isn’tenough. Every natural love will rise again and live forever in thiscountry: but none will rise again until it has been buried.’

‘The saying is almost too hard for us.’

‘Ah, but it’s cruel not to say it. They that know have grown afraid tospeak. That is why sorrows that used to purify now only fester.’

‘Shelley was wrong, then, when he said he was certain of the holiness ofthe heart’s affections.’

‘I doubt if he knew clearly what he meant. But you and I must be clear.There is but one good; that is God. Everything else is good when it looksto Him and bad when it turns from Him. And the higher and mightier it isin the natural order, the more demoniac it will be if it rebels. It’s notout of bad mice or bad fleas you make demons, but out of bad archangels.The false religion of lust is baser than the false religion ofmother-love or patriotism or art: but lust is less likely to be made intoa religion. But look!’

I saw coming towards us a Ghost who carried something on his shoulder.Like all the Ghosts, he was unsubstantial, but they differed from oneanother as smokes differ. Some had been whitish; this one was dark andoily. What sat on his shoulder was a little red lizard, and it wastwitching its tail like a whip and whispering things in his ear. As wecaught sight of him he turned his head to the reptile with a snarl ofimpatience. ‘Shut up, I tell you!’ he said. It wagged its tail andcontinued to whisper to him. He ceased snarling, and presently began tosmile. Then he turned and started to limp westward, away from themountains.

‘Off so soon?’ said a voice.

The speaker was more or less human in shape but larger than a man, and sobright that I could hardly look at him. His presence smote on my eyes andon my body too (for there was heat coming from him as well as light) likethe morning sun at the beginning of a tyrannous summer day.

‘Yes. I’m off,’ said the Ghost. ‘Thanks for all your hospitality. Butit’s no good, you see. I told this little chap’ (here he indicated thelizard) ‘that he’d have to be quiet if he came—which he insisted ondoing. Of course his stuff won’t do here: I realise that. But he won’tstop. I shall just have to go home.’

‘Would you like me to make him quiet?’ said the flaming Spirit—an angel,as I now understood.

‘Of course I would,’ said the Ghost.

‘Then I will kill him,’ said the Angel, taking a step forward.

‘Oh—ah—look out! You’re burning me. Keep away,’ said the Ghost,retreating.

‘Don’t you _want_ him killed?’

‘You didn’t say anything about _killing_ him at first. I hardly meant tobother you with anything so drastic as that.’

‘It’s the only way,’ said the Angel, whose burning hands were now veryclose to the lizard. ‘Shall I kill it?’

‘Well, that’s a further question. I’m quite open to consider it, but it’sa new point, isn’t it? I mean, for the moment I was only thinking aboutsilencing it because up here—well, it’s so damned embarrassing.’

‘May I kill it?’

‘Well, there’s time to discuss that later.’

‘There is no time. May I kill it?’

‘Please, I never meant to be such a nuisance. Please—really—don’t bother.Look! It’s gone to sleep of its own accord. I’m sure it’ll be all rightnow. Thanks ever so much.’

‘May I kill it?’

‘Honestly, I don’t think there’s the slightest necessity for that. I’msure I shall be able to keep it in order now. I think the gradual processwould be far better than killing it.’

‘The gradual process is of no use at all.’

‘Don’t you think so? Well, I’ll think over what you’ve said verycarefully. I honestly will. In fact I’d let you kill it now, but as amatter of fact I’m not feeling frightfully well to-day. It would be sillyto do it _now_. I’d need to be in good health for the operation. Someother day, perhaps.’

‘There is no other day. All days are present now.’

‘Get back! You’re burning me. How can I tell you to kill it? You’d kill_me_ if you did.’

‘It is not so.’

‘Why, you’re hurting me now.’

‘I never said it wouldn’t hurt you. I said it wouldn’t kill you.’

‘Oh, I know. You think I’m a coward. But it isn’t that. Really it isn’t.I say! Let me run back by to-night’s bus and get an opinion from my owndoctor. I’ll come again the first moment I can.’

‘This moment contains all moments.’

‘Why are you torturing me? You are jeering at me. How can I let you tearme in pieces? If you wanted to help me, why didn’t you kill the damnedthing without asking me—before I knew? It would be all over by now if youhad.’

‘I cannot kill it against your will. It is impossible. Have I yourpermission?’

The Guardian’s hands were almost closed on the Lizard, but not quite. Thenthe Lizard began chattering to the Ghost so loud that even I could hearwhat it was saying.

‘Be careful,’ it said. ‘He can do what he says. He can kill me. One fatalword from you and he _will_! Then you’ll be without me for ever and ever.It’s not natural. How could you live? You’d be only a sort of ghost, nota real man as you are now. He doesn’t understand. He’s only a cold,bloodless abstract thing. It may be natural for him, but it isn’t for us.Yes, yes. I know there are no real pleasures now, only dreams. But aren’tthey better than nothing? And I’ll be so good. I admit I’ve sometimesgone too far in the past, but I promise I won’t do it again. I’ll giveyou nothing but really nice dreams—all sweet and fresh and almostinnocent. You might say, quite innocent. . . .’

‘Have I your permission?’ said the Angel to the Ghost.

‘I know it will kill me.’

‘It won’t. But supposing it did?’

‘You’re right. It would be better to be dead than to live with thiscreature.’

‘Then I may?’

‘Damn and blast you! Go on can’t you? Get it over. Do what you like,’bellowed the Ghost: but ended, whimpering, ‘God help me. God help me.’

Next moment the Ghost gave a scream of agony such as I never heard onEarth. The Burning One closed his crimson grip on the reptile: twistedit, while it bit and writhed, and then flung it, broken backed, on theturf.

‘Ow! That’s done for me,’ gasped the Ghost, reeling backwards.

For a moment I could make out nothing distinctly. Then I saw, between meand the nearest bush, unmistakably solid but growing every momentsolider, the upper arm and the shoulder of a man. Then, brighter stilland stronger, the legs and hands. The neck and golden head materialisedwhile I watched, and if my attention had not wavered I should have seenthe actual completing of a man—an immense man, naked, not much smallerthan the Angel. What distracted me was the fact that at the same momentsomething seemed to be happening to the Lizard. At first I thought theoperation had failed. So far from dying, the creature was stillstruggling and even growing bigger as it struggled. And as it grew itchanged. Its hinder parts grew rounder. The tail, still flickering,became a tail of hair that flickered between huge and glossy buttocks.Suddenly I started back, rubbing my eyes. What stood before me was thegreatest stallion I have ever seen, silvery white but with mane and tailof gold. It was smooth and shining, rippled with swells of flesh andmuscle, whinneying and stamping with its hoofs. At each stamp the landshook and the trees dindled.

The new-made man turned and clapped the new horse’s neck. It nosed hisbright body. Horse and master breathed each into the other’s nostrils.The man turned from it, flung himself at the feet of the Burning One, andembraced them. When he rose I thought his face shone with tears, but itmay have been only the liquid love and brightness (one cannot distinguishthem in that country) which flowed from him. I had not long to thinkabout it. In joyous haste the young man leaped upon the horse’s back.Turning in his seat he waved a farewell, then nudged the stallion withhis heels. They were off before I well knew what was happening. There wasriding if you like! I came out as quickly as I could from among thebushes to follow them with my eyes; but already they were only like ashooting star far off on the green plain, and soon among the foothills ofthe mountains. Then, still like a star, I saw them winding up, scalingwhat seemed impossible steeps, and quicker every moment, till near thedim brow of the landscape, so high that I must strain my neck to seethem, they vanished, bright themselves, into the rose-brightness of thateverlasting morning.

While I still watched, I noticed that the whole plain and forest wereshaking with a sound which in our world would be too large to hear, butthere I could take it with joy. I knew it was not the Solid People whowere singing. It was the voice of that earth, those woods and thosewaters. A strange archaic, inorganic noise, that came from all directionsat once. The Nature or Arch-nature of that land rejoiced to have beenonce more ridden, and therefore consummated, in the person of the horse.It sang,

_‘The Master says to our master, Come up. Share my rest and splendourtill all natures that were your enemies become slaves to dance before youand backs for you to ride, and firmness for your feet to rest on._

_‘From beyond all place and time, out of the very Place, authority willbe given you: the strengths that once opposed your will shall be obedientfire in your blood and heavenly thunder in your voice._

_‘Overcome us that, so overcome, we may be ourselves: we desire thebeginning of your reign as we desire dawn and dew, wetness at the birthof light._

_‘Master, your Master has appointed you for ever: to be our King ofJustice and our high Priest.’_

‘Do ye understand all this, my Son?’ said the Teacher.

‘I don’t know about _all_, Sir,’ said I. ‘Am I right in thinking theLizard really turned into the Horse?’

‘Aye. But it was killed first. Ye’ll not forget that part of the story?’

‘I’ll try not to, Sir. But does it mean that everything—everything—thatis in us can go on to the Mountains?’

‘Nothing, not even the best and noblest, can go on as it now is. Nothing,not even what is lowest and most bestial, will not be raised again if itsubmits to death. It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritualbody. Flesh and blood cannot come to the Mountains. Not because they aretoo rank, but because they are too weak. What is a Lizard compared with astallion? Lust is a poor, weak, whimpering, whispering thing comparedwith that richness and energy of desire which will arise when lust hasbeen killed.’

‘But am I to tell them at home that this man’s sensuality proved less ofan obstacle than that poor woman’s love for her son? For that was, at anyrate, an excess of _love_.’

‘Ye’ll tell them no such thing,’ he replied sternly. ‘Excess of love, didye say? There was no excess, there was defect. She loved her son toolittle, not too much. If she had loved him more there’d be no difficulty.I do not know how her affair will end. But it may well be that at thismoment she’s demanding to have him down with her in Hell. That kind issometimes perfectly ready to plunge the soul they say they love inendless misery if only they can still in some fashion possess it. No, no.Ye must draw another lesson. Ye must ask, if the risen body even ofappetite is as grand a horse as ye saw, what would the risen body ofmaternal love or friendship be?’

But once more my attention was diverted. ‘Is there _another_ river, Sir?’I asked.

                                  12.

The reason why I asked if there were another river was this. All down onelong aisle of the forest the under-sides of the leafy branches had begunto tremble with dancing light; and on earth I knew nothing so likely toproduce this appearance as the reflected lights cast upward by movingwater. A few moments later I realised my mistake. Some kind of processionwas approaching us, and the light came from the persons who composed it.

First came bright Spirits, not the Spirits of men, who danced andscattered flowers—soundlessly falling, lightly drifting flowers, thoughby the standards of the ghost-world each petal would have weighed ahundred-weight and their fall would have been like the crashing ofboulders. Then, on the left and right, at each side of the forest avenue,came youthful shapes, boys upon one hand, and girls upon the other. If Icould remember their singing and write down the notes, no man who readthat score would ever grow sick or old. Between them went musicians: andafter these a lady in whose honour all this was being done.

I cannot now remember whether she was naked or clothed. If she werenaked, then it must have been the almost visible penumbra of her courtesyand joy which produces in my memory the illusion of a great and shiningtrain that followed her across the happy grass. If she were clothed, thenthe illusion of nakedness is doubtless due to the clarity with which herinmost spirit shone through the clothes. For clothes in that country arenot a disguise: the spiritual body lives along each thread and turns theminto living organs. A robe or a crown is there as much one of thewearer’s features as a lip or an eye.

But I have forgotten. And only partly do I remember the unbearable beautyof her face.

‘Is it? . . . is it?’ I whispered to my guide.

‘Not at all,’ said he. ‘It’s someone ye’ll never have heard of. Her nameon earth was Eleanor Brown and she lived at Golders Green.’

‘She seems to be . . . well, a person of particular importance?’

‘Aye. She is one of the great ones. Ye have heard that fame in thiscountry and fame on Earth are two quite different things.’

‘And who are these gigantic people . . . look! They’re like emeralds . .. who are dancing and throwing flowers before her?’

‘Haven’t ye read your Byron? _A thousand liveried angels lackey her._’

‘And who are all these young men and women on each side?’

‘They are her sons and daughters.’

‘She must have had a very large family, Sir.’

‘Every young man or boy that met her became her son—even if it was onlythe boy that brought the meat to her back door. Every girl that met herwas her daughter.’

‘Isn’t that a bit hard on their own parents?’

‘No. There _are_ those that steal other people’s children. But hermotherhood was of a different kind. Those on whom it fell went back totheir natural parents loving them more. Few men looked on her withoutbecoming, in a certain fashion, her lovers. But it was the kind of lovethat made them not less true, but truer, to their own wives.’

‘And how . . . but hullo! What are all these animals? A cat—twocats—dozens of cats. And all those dogs . . . why, I can’t count them.And the birds. And the horses.’

‘They are her beasts.’

‘Did she keep a sort of zoo? I mean, this is a bit too much.’

‘Every beast and bird that came near her had its place in her love. Inher they became themselves. And now the abundance of life she has inChrist from the Father flows over into them.’

I looked at my Teacher in amazement.

‘Yes,’ he said. ‘It is like when you throw a stone into a pool, and theconcentric waves spread out further and further. Who knows where it willend? Redeemed humanity is still young, it has hardly come to its fullstrength. But already there is joy enough in the little finger of a greatsaint such as yonder lady to waken all the dead things of the universeinto life.’

While we spoke the Maiden was steadily advancing towards us, but it was notat us she looked. Following the direction of her eyes, I turned and sawan oddly-shaped phantom approaching. Or rather two phantoms: a great tallGhost, horribly thin and shaky, who seemed to be leading on a chainanother Ghost no bigger than an organ-grinder’s monkey. The taller Ghostwore a soft black hat, and he reminded me of something that my memorycould not quite recover. Then, when he had come within a few feet of theMaiden he spread out his lean, shaky hand flat on his chest with thefingers wide apart, and exclaimed in a hollow voice, ‘At last!’ All atonce I realised what it was that he had put me in mind of. He was like aseedy actor of the old school.

‘Darling! At last!’ said the Maiden. ‘Good Heavens!’ thought I. ‘Surely shecan’t——’, and then I noticed two things. In the first place, I noticedthat the little Ghost was not being led by the big one. It was thedwarfish figure that held the chain in its hand and the theatrical figurethat wore the collar round its neck. In the second place, I noticed thatthe Maiden was looking solely at the dwarf Ghost. She seemed to think itwas the Dwarf who had addressed her, or else she was deliberatelyignoring the other. On the poor dwarf she turned her eyes. Love shone notfrom her face only, but from all her limbs, as if it were some liquid inwhich she had just been bathing. Then, to my dismay, she came nearer. Shestooped down and kissed the Dwarf. It made one shudder to see her in suchclose contact with that cold, damp, shrunken thing. But she did notshudder.

‘Victor,’ she said, ‘before anything else, forgive me. For all I ever didwrong and for all I did not do right since the first day we met, I askyour pardon.’

I looked properly at the Dwarf for the first time now: or perhaps, whenhe received her kiss he became a little more visible. One could just makeout the sort of face he must have had when he was a man: a little, oval,freckled face with a weak chin and a tiny wisp of unsuccessful moustache.He gave her a glance, not a full look. He was watching the Thespian outof the corner of his eyes. Then he gave a jerk to the chain: and it wasthe Thespian, not he, who answered the Maiden.

‘There, there,’ said the Thespian. ‘We’ll say no more about it. We allmake mistakes.’ With the words there came over his features a ghastlycontortion which, I think, was meant for an indulgently playful smile.‘We’ll say no more,’ he continued. ‘It’s not myself I’m thinking about.It is you. That is what has been continually on my mind—all these years.The thought of you—you here alone, breaking your heart about me.’

‘But now,’ said the Maiden to the Dwarf, ‘you can set all that aside. Neverthink like that again. It is all over.’

Her beauty brightened so that I could hardly see anything else, and underthat sweet compulsion the Dwarf really looked at her for the first time.For a second I thought he was growing more like a man. He opened hismouth. He himself was going to speak this time. But Oh, thedisappointment when the words came!

‘You missed me?’ he croaked in a small, bleating voice.

Yet even then she was not taken aback. Still the love and courtesy flowedfrom her.

‘Dear, you will understand about that very soon,’ she said. ‘Butto-day——.’

What happened next gave me a shock. The Dwarf and the Thespian spoke inunison, not to her but to one another. ‘You’ll notice,’ they warned oneanother, ‘she hasn’t answered our question.’ I realised then that theywere one person, or rather that both were the remains of what had oncebeen a person. The Dwarf again rattled the chain.

‘You missed me?’ said the Thespian to the Maiden, throwing a dreadfultheatrical tremor into his voice.

‘Dear friend,’ said the Maiden, still attending exclusively to the Dwarf,‘you may be happy about that and about everything else. Forget all aboutit for ever.’

And really, for a moment, I thought the Dwarf was going to obey: partlybecause the outlines of his face became a little clearer, and partlybecause the invitation to all joy, singing out of her whole being like abird’s song on an April evening, seemed to me such that no creature couldresist it. Then he hesitated. And then—once more he and his accomplicespoke in unison.

‘Of course it would be rather fine and magnanimous not to press thepoint,’ they said to one another. ‘But can we be sure she’d notice? We’vedone these sort of things before. There was the time we let her have thelast stamp in the house to write to her mother and said nothing althoughshe _had_ known we wanted to write a letter ourself. We’d thought she’dremember and see how unselfish we’d been. But she never did. And therewas the time . . . oh, lots and lots of times!’ So the Dwarf gave a shaketo the chain and——.

‘I can’t forget it,’ cried the Thespian. ‘And I won’t forget it, either.I could forgive them all they’ve done to me. But for your miseries——.’

‘Oh, don’t you understand?’ said the Maiden. ‘There _are_ no miserieshere.’

‘Do you mean to say,’ answered the Dwarf, as if this new idea had madehim quite forget the Thespian for a moment, ‘do you mean to say you’vebeen _happy_?’

‘Didn’t you want me to be? But no matter. Want it now. Or don’t thinkabout it at all.’

The Dwarf blinked at her. One could see an unheard-of idea trying toenter his little mind: one could see even that there was for him somesweetness in it. For a second he had almost let the chain go: then, as ifit were his life-line, he clutched it once more.

‘Look here,’ said the Thespian. ‘We’ve got to face this.’ He was usinghis ‘manly’ bullying tone this time: the one for bringing women to theirsenses.

‘Darling,’ said the Maiden to the Dwarf, ‘there’s nothing to face. Youdon’t want me to have been miserable for misery’s sake. You only think Imust have been if I loved you. But if you’ll only wait you’ll see thatisn’t so.’

‘Love!’ said the Thespian striking his forehead with his hand: then, afew notes deeper, ‘Love! Do you know the meaning of the word?’

‘How should I not?’ said the Maiden. ‘I am in love. _In_ love, do youunderstand? Yes, now I love truly.’

‘You mean,’ said the Thespian, ‘you mean—you did _not_ love me truly inthe old days.’

‘Only in a poor sort of way,’ she answered. ‘I have asked you to forgiveme. There was a little real love in it. But what we called love downthere was mostly the craving to be loved. In the main I loved you for myown sake: because I needed you.’

‘And now!’ said the Thespian with a hackneyed gesture of despair. ‘Now,you need me no more?’

‘But of course not!’ said the Maiden; and her smile made me wonder how boththe phantoms could refrain from crying out with joy.

‘What needs could I have,’ she said, ‘now that I have all? I am full now,not empty. I am in Love Himself, not lonely. Strong, not weak. You shallbe the same. Come and see. We shall have no _need_ for one another now:we can begin to love truly.’

But the Thespian was still striking attitudes. ‘She needs me no more—nomore. No more,’ he said in a choking voice to no one in particular.‘Would to God,’ he continued, but he was now pronouncing it _Gud_—‘wouldto Gud I had seen her lying dead at my feet before I heard those words.Lying dead at my feet. Lying dead at my feet.’

I do not know how long the creature intended to go on repeating thephrase, for the Maiden put an end to that. ‘Victor! Victor!’ she cried in avoice that made the whole wood ring. ‘Look at me. _Look_ at me. What areyou doing with that great, ugly doll? Let go of the chain. Send it away.It is _you_ I want. Don’t you see what nonsense it’s talking.’ Merrimentdanced in her eyes. She was sharing a joke with the Dwarf, right over thehead of the Thespian. Something not all unlike a smile struggled toappear on the Dwarf’s face. For he _was_ looking at her now. Her laughterwas past his first defences. He was struggling hard to keep it out, butalready with imperfect success. Against his will, he was even growing alittle bigger. ‘Oh, you great goose,’ said she. ‘What _is_ the good oftalking like that here? You know as well as I do that you _did_ see melying dead years and years ago. Not “at your feet”, of course, but on abed in a nursing home. A very good nursing home it was too. Matron wouldnever have dreamed of leaving bodies lying about the floor! It’sridiculous for that doll to try to be impressive about death _here_. Itjust won’t work.’

                                  13.

I do not know that I ever saw anything more terrible than the struggle ofthat Dwarf Ghost against joy. For he had almost been overcome. Somewhere,incalculable ages ago, there must have been gleams of humour and reasonin him. For one moment, while she looked at him in her love and mirth, hesaw the absurdity of the Thespian. For one moment he did not at allmisunderstand her laughter: he too must once have known that no peoplefind each other more absurd than lovers. But the light that reached him,reached him against his will. This was not the meeting he had pictured;he would not accept it. Once more he clutched at his death-line, and atonce the Thespian spoke.

‘You dare to laugh at it!’ it stormed. ‘To my face? And this is myreward. Very well. It is fortunate that you give yourself no concernabout my fate. Otherwise you might be sorry afterwards to think that youhad driven me back to Hell. What? Do you think I’d stay _now_? Thank you.I believe I’m fairly quick at recognising where I’m not wanted. “Notneeded” was the exact expression, if I remember rightly.’

From this time on the Dwarf never spoke again: but still the Maidenaddressed it.

‘Dear, no one sends you back. Here is all joy. Everything bids you stay.’But the Dwarf was growing smaller even while she spoke.

‘Yes,’ said the Thespian. ‘On terms you might offer to a dog. I happento have some self-respect left, and I see that my going will make nodifference to you. It is nothing to you that I go back to the cold andthe gloom, the lonely, lonely streets——.’

‘Don’t, don’t, Victor,’ said the Maiden. ‘Don’t let it talk like that.’ Butthe Dwarf was now so small that she had dropped on her knees to speak toit. The Thespian caught her words greedily as a dog catches a bone.

‘Ah, you can’t bear to hear it!’ he shouted with miserable triumph. ‘Thatwas always the way. _You_ must be sheltered. Grim realities must be keptout of _your_ sight. You who can be happy without me, forgetting me! Youdon’t want even to hear of my sufferings. You say, _don’t_. Don’t tellyou. Don’t make you unhappy. Don’t break in on your sheltered,self-centred little heaven. And this is the reward——.’

She stooped still lower to speak to the Dwarf which was now a figure nobigger than a kitten, hanging on to the end of the chain with his feetoff the ground.

‘That wasn’t why I said, Don’t,’ she answered. ‘I meant, stop acting.It’s no good. He is killing you. Let go of that chain. Even now.’

‘Acting,’ screamed the Thespian. ‘What do you mean?’

The Dwarf was now so small that I could not distinguish him from thechain to which he was clinging. And now for the first time I could not becertain whether the Maiden was addressing him or the Thespian.

‘Quick,’ she said. ‘There is still time. Stop it. Stop it at once.’

‘Stop what?’

‘Using pity, other people’s pity, in the wrong way. We have all done it abit on earth, you know. Pity was meant to be a spur that drives joy tohelp misery. But it can be used the wrong way round. It can be used for akind of blackmailing. Those who choose misery can hold joy up to ransom,by pity. You see, I know now. Even as a child you did it. Instead ofsaying you were sorry, you went and sulked in the attic . . . because youknew that sooner or later one of your sisters would say, “I can’t bear tothink of him sitting up there alone, crying.” You used their pity toblackmail them, and they gave in in the end. And afterwards, when we weremarried . . . oh, it doesn’t matter, if only you will _stop_ it.’

‘And _that_,’ said the Thespian, ‘that is all you have understood of me,after all these years.’ I don’t know what had become of the Dwarf Ghostby now. Perhaps it was climbing up the chain like an insect: perhaps itwas somehow absorbed into the chain.

‘No, Victor, not _here_,’ said the Maiden. ‘Listen to reason. Did you thinkjoy was created to live always under that threat? Always defencelessagainst those who would rather be miserable than have their self-willcrossed? For it was real misery. I know that now. You made yourselfreally wretched. That you can still do. But you can no longer communicateyour wretchedness. Everything becomes more and more itself. Here is joythat cannot be shaken. Our light can swallow up your darkness: but yourdarkness cannot now infect our light. No, no, no. Come to us. We will notgo to you. Can you really have thought that love and joy would always beat the mercy of frowns and sighs? Did you not know they were strongerthan their opposites?’

‘Love? How dare _you_ use that sacred word?’ said the Thespian. At thesame moment he gathered up the chain which had now for some time beenswinging uselessly at his side, and somehow disposed of it. I am notquite sure, but I think he swallowed it. Then for the first time itbecame clear that the Maiden saw and addressed him only.

‘Where is Victor?’ she said. ‘And who are you, Sir? I never knew you.Perhaps you had better leave me. Or stay, if you prefer. If it would helpyou and if it were possible I would go down with you into Hell: but youcannot bring Hell into me.’

‘You do not love me,’ said the Thespian in a thin bat-like voice: and hewas now very difficult to see.

‘I cannot love a lie,’ said the Maiden. ‘I cannot love the thing which isnot. I am in Love, and out of it I will not go.’

There was no answer. The Thespian had vanished. The Maiden was alone inthat woodland place, and a brown bird went hopping past her, bending withits light feet the grasses I could not bend.

Presently the lady got up and began to walk away. The other BrightSpirits came forward to receive her, singing as they came:

  _‘The Happy Trinity is her home: nothing can trouble her joy._  _She is the bird that evades every net: the wild deer that leaps every              pitfall._  _Like the mother bird to its chickens or a shield to the arm’d knight:              so is the Lord to her mind, in His unchanging lucidity._  _Bogies will not scare her in the dark: bullets will not frighten her              in the day._  _Falsehoods tricked out as truths assail her in vain: she sees through              the lie as if it were glass._  _The invisible germ will not harm her: nor yet the glittering              sun-stroke._  _A thousand fail to solve the problem, ten thousand choose the wrong              turning: but she passes safely through._  _He details immortal gods to attend her: upon every road where she must              travel._  _They take her hand at hard places: she will not stub her toes in the              dark._  _She may walk among Lions and rattlesnakes: among dinosaurs and              nurseries of lionets._  _He fills her brim full with immensity of life: he leads her to see the              world’s desire.’_

‘And yet . . . and yet . . .’, said I to my Teacher, when all the shapesand the singing had passed some distance away into the forest, ‘even nowI am not quite sure. Is it really tolerable that she should be untouchedby his misery, even his self-made misery?’

‘Would ye rather he still had the power of tormenting her? He did it manya day and many a year in their earthly life.’

‘Well, no. I suppose I don’t want that.’

‘What then?’

‘I hardly know, Sir. What some people say on earth is that the final lossof one soul gives the lie to all the joy of those who are saved.’

‘Ye see it does not.’

‘I feel in a way that it ought to.’

‘That sounds very merciful: but see what lurks behind it.’

‘What?’

‘The demand of the loveless and the self-imprisoned that they should beallowed to blackmail the universe: that till they consent to be happy (ontheir own terms) no one else shall taste joy: that theirs should be thefinal power; that Hell should be able to _veto_ Heaven.’

‘I don’t know what I want, Sir.’

‘Son, son, it must be one way or the other. Either the day must come whenjoy prevails and all the makers of misery are no longer able to infectit: or else for ever and ever the makers of misery can destroy in othersthe happiness they reject for themselves. I know it has a grand sound tosay ye’ll accept no salvation which leaves even one creature in the darkoutside. But watch that sophistry or ye’ll make a Dog in a Manger thetyrant of the universe.’

‘But dare one say—it is horrible to say—that Pity must ever die?’

‘Ye must distinguish. The action of Pity will live for ever: but thepassion of Pity will not. The passion of pity, the pity we merely suffer,the ache that draws men to concede what should not be conceded and toflatter when they should speak truth, the pity that has cheated many awoman out of her virginity and many a statesman out of his honesty—thatwill die. It was used as a weapon by bad men against good ones: theirweapon will be broken.’

‘And what is the other kind—the action?’

‘It’s a weapon on the other side. It leaps quicker than light from thehighest place to the lowest to bring healing and joy, whatever the costto itself. It changes darkness into light and evil into good. But it willnot, at the cunning tears of Hell, impose on good the tyranny of evil.Every disease that submits to a cure shall be cured: but we will not callblue yellow to please those who insist on still having jaundice, nor makea midden of the world’s garden for the sake of some who cannot abide thesmell of roses.’

‘You say it will go down to the lowest, Sir. But she didn’t go down withhim to Hell. She didn’t even see him off by the bus.’

‘Where would ye have had her go?’

‘Why, where we all came from by that bus. The big gulf, beyond the edgeof the cliff. Over there. You can’t see it from here, but you must knowthe place I mean.’

My Teacher gave a curious smile. ‘Look,’ he said, and with the word hewent down on his hands and knees. I did the same (how it hurt my knees!)and presently saw that he had plucked a blade of grass. Using its thinend as a pointer, he made me see, after I had looked very closely, acrack in the soil so small that I could not have identified it withoutthis aid.

‘I cannot be certain’, he said, ‘that this _is_ the crack ye came upthrough. But through a crack no bigger than that ye certainly came.’

‘But—but,’ I gasped with a feeling of bewilderment not unlike terror. ‘Isaw an infinite abyss. And cliffs towering up and up. And then _this_country on top of the cliffs.’

‘Aye. But the voyage was not mere locomotion. That bus, and all youinside it, were increasing _in size_.’[1]

‘Do you mean then that Hell—all that infinite empty town—is down in somelittle crack like this?’

‘Yes. All Hell is smaller than one pebble of your earthly world: but itis smaller than one atom of _this_ world, the Real World. Look at yonbutterfly. If it swallowed all Hell, Hell would not be big enough to doit any harm or to have any taste.’

‘It seems big enough when you’re in it, Sir.’

‘And yet all loneliness, angers, hatreds, envies and itchings that itcontains, if rolled into one single experience and put into the scaleagainst the least moment of the joy that is felt by the least in Heaven,would have no weight that could be registered at all. Bad cannot succeedeven in being bad as truly as good is good. If all Hell’s miseriestogether entered the consciousness of yon wee yellow bird on the boughthere, they would be swallowed up without trace, as if one drop of inkhad been dropped into that Great Ocean to which your terrestrial Pacificitself is only a molecule.’

‘I see,’ said I at last. ‘She couldn’t _fit_ into Hell.’

He nodded. ‘There’s not room for her,’ he said. ‘Hell could not open itsmouth wide enough.’

‘And she couldn’t make herself smaller?—like Lila, you know.’

‘Nothing like small enough. For a damned soul is nearly nothing: it isshrunk, shut up in itself. Good beats upon the damned incessantly assound waves beat on the ears of the deaf, but they cannot receive it.Their fists are clenched, their teeth are clenched, their eyes fast shut.First they will not, in the end they cannot, open their hands for gifts,or their mouths for food, or their eyes to see.’

‘Then no one can ever reach them?’

‘Only the Greatest of all can make Himself small enough to enter Hell.For the higher a thing is, the lower it can descend—a man can sympathisewith a horse but a horse cannot sympathise with a rat. Only One hasdescended into Hell.’

‘And will He ever do so again?’

‘It was not once long ago that He did it. Time does not work that waywhen once ye have left the Earth. All moments that have been or shall bewere, or are, present in the moment of His descending. There is no spiritin prison to Whom He did not preach.’

‘And some hear him?’

‘Aye.’

‘In your own books, Sir,’ said I, ‘you were a Universalist. You talked asif all men would be saved. And St. Paul too.’

‘Ye can know nothing of the end of all things, or nothing expressible inthose terms. It may be, as the Lord said to the Maiden Julian, that allwill be well, and all will be well, and all manner of thing will be well.But it’s ill talking of such questions.’

‘Because they are too terrible, Sir?’

‘No. Because all answers deceive. If ye put the question from within Timeand are asking about possibilities, the answer is certain. The choice ofways is before you. Neither is closed. Any man may choose eternal death.Those who choose it will have it. But if ye are trying to leap on intoeternity, if ye are trying to see the final state of all things as it_will_ be (for so ye must speak) when there are no more possibilitiesleft but only the Real, then ye ask what cannot be answered to mortalears. Time is the very lens through which ye see—small and clear, as mensee through the wrong end of a telescope—something that would otherwisebe too big for ye to see at all. That thing is Freedom: the gift wherebyye most resemble your Maker and are yourselves parts of eternal reality.But ye can see it only through the lens of Time, in a little clearpicture, through the inverted telescope. It is a picture of momentsfollowing one another and yourself in each moment making some choice thatmight have been otherwise. Neither the temporal succession nor thephantom of what ye might have chosen and didn’t is itself Freedom. Theyare a lens. The picture is a symbol: but it’s truer than anyphilosophical theorem (or, perhaps, than any mystic’s vision) that claimsto go behind it. For every attempt to see the shape of eternity exceptthrough the lens of Time destroys your knowledge of Freedom. Witness thedoctrine of Predestination which shows (truly enough) that eternalreality is not waiting for a future in which to be real; but at the priceof removing Freedom which is the deeper truth of the two. And wouldn’tUniversalism do the same? Ye _cannot_ know eternal reality by adefinition. Time itself, and all acts and events that fill Time, are thedefinition, and it must be lived. The Lord said we were gods. How longcould ye bear to look (without Time’s lens) on the greatness of your ownsoul and the eternal reality of her choice?’

                                  14.

And suddenly all was changed. I saw a great assembly of gigantic formsall motionless, all in deepest silence, standing forever about a littlesilver table and looking upon it. And on the table there were littlefigures like chessmen who went to and fro doing this and that. And I knewthat each chessman was the _idolum_ or puppet representative of some oneof the great presences that stood by. And the acts and motions of eachchessman were a moving portrait, a mimicry or pantomime, which delineatedthe inmost nature of his giant master. And these chessmen are men andwomen as they appear to themselves and to one another in this world. Andthe silver table is Time. And those who stand and watch are the immortalsouls of those same men and women. Then vertigo and terror seized me and,clutching at my Teacher, I said, ‘Is _that_ the truth? Then is all that Ihave been seeing in this country false? These conversations between theSpirits and the Ghosts—were they only the mimicry of choices that hadreally been made long ago?’

‘Or might ye not as well say, anticipations of a choice to be made at theend of all things? But ye’d do better to say neither. Ye saw the choicesa bit more clearly than ye could see them on earth: the lens was clearer.But it was still seen through the lens. Do not ask of a vision in a dreammore than a vision in a dream can give.’

‘A dream? Then—then—am I not really here, Sir?’

‘No, Son,’ said he kindly, taking my hand in his. ‘It is not so good asthat. The bitter drink of death is still before you. Ye are onlydreaming. And if ye come to tell of what ye have seen, make it plain thatit was but a dream. See ye make it very plain. Give no poor fool thepretext to think ye are claiming knowledge of what no mortal knows. I’llhave no Swedenborgs and no Vale Owens among my children.’

‘God forbid, Sir,’ said I, trying to look very wise.

‘He _has_ forbidden it. That’s what I’m telling ye.’ As he said this helooked more Scotch than ever. I was gazing steadfastly on his face. Thevision of the chessmen had faded, and once more the quiet woods in thecool light before sunrise were about us. Then, still looking at his face,I saw there something that sent a quiver through my whole body. I stoodat that moment with my back to the East and the mountains, and he, facingme, looked towards them. His face flushed with a new light. A fern,thirty yards behind him, turned golden. The eastern side of everytree-trunk grew bright. Shadows deepened. All the time there had beenbird noises, trillings, chatterings, and the like; but now suddenly thefull chorus was poured from every branch; cocks were crowing, there wasmusic of hounds, and horns; above all this ten thousand tongues of menand woodland angels and the wood itself sang. ‘It comes! It comes!’ theysang. ‘Sleepers awake! It comes, it comes, it comes.’ One dreadful glanceover my shoulder I essayed—not long enough to see (or did I see?) the rimof the sunrise that shoots Time dead with golden arrows and puts toflight all phantasmal shapes. Screaming, I buried my face in the folds ofmy Teacher’s robe. ‘The morning! The morning!’ I cried, ‘I am caught bythe morning and I am a ghost.’ But it was too late. The light, like solidblocks, intolerable of edge and weight, came thundering upon my head.Next moment the folds of my Teacher’s garment were only the folds of theold ink-stained cloth on my study table which I had pulled down with meas I fell from my chair. The blocks of light were only the books which Ihad pulled off with it, falling about my head. I awoke in a cold room,hunched on the floor beside a black and empty grate, the clock strikingthree, and the siren howling overhead.

